Placeholder while article actions loadJaden Geller is giving up on his Gmail inbox. The 26-year-old security engineer in San Francisco has been battling an explosion of spam to his free email account for months, like mailing lists he never signed up for and obvious scams. He thinks the address has been compromised beyond saving.Help Desk: Technology coverage that makes tech work for youArrowRight“I was better about actually deleting spam messages at first, but then it became unmanageable,” Geller said. “I used to archive every single message. Now that’s too much of a hassle. I’m checking my inbox less frequently, not looking at everything, and leaving it in a messy state.”Email spam is an old problem that many people may have forgotten about or, at least, made peace with. Thanks to improvements in automatic filters from email providers and third-party services, the early 2000′s onslaught of sketchy Viagra offers and promised contest winnings were mostly kept out of sight. The spam waterfall became a leaky faucet, with just a few iffy emails showing up in our inboxes alongside a bunch of legitimate marketing emails that are, often, our own doing.Quit or pay: What to do when you run out of free Google storageBut over the course of the pandemic — particularly in the past six months — many people using free-email services have noticed a surge of unwanted scam emails slipping through the filters and landing in their inboxes. Gmail users have been most vocal about the issue, and some are so overwhelmed with spam they’re trying to figure out what they can do about it. Fortunately, the Help Desk is here to help.More spam than usual appears to be getting through the automatic filters on some free email services, particularly Google’s 18-year-old Gmail. According to cybersecurity firm Proofpoint, there has been a 30 percent increase in the volume of spam this past year across services. The company detected 10 billion additional spam messages in December alone.AdvertisementFree email such as Google’s Gmail, Microsoft’s Outlook and Hotmail, and Yahoo have built-in tools for detecting junk mail and moving them to another location (usually a folder called “Spam” or “Junk”) where you can still see them or ignore them forever. There are paid third-party filtering options for companies that host their own email but not many for the free email services that are used by billions of people around the world. On the other side of the issue is professional criminals and marketers, constantly looking for new ways to outsmart email filters and reach their targets.“Spam is dynamic, unpredictable, and takes many forms,” said Google’s Bjorn Grubelich, product manager for Gmail Counter-abuses. He says Google uses machine learning models to detect and filter out new threats, and that it blocks more than 99.9 percent of spam, phishing and malware from reaching Gmail users.The term spam encompasses a variety of annoying emails, mostly out to access your money or information (which in turn can make spammers money).AdvertisementThere are marketing emails that you may or may not have unwittingly opted into after buying boots online or signing up for a newsletter. Companies can also get your information from lists that they buy, signing you up for mailings without your consent. The next tier down is filled with less legitimate operations that are still trying to sell things like unapproved medications. (The pharmaceutical scams largely target the United States, where there is no nationalized health care, says Chester Wisniewski, principal research scientist at security company Sophos.)The anatomy of a ransomware attackPhishing emails are attempts to trick the recipient into handing over sensitive information, like a password or credit card number. Then there are malware emails that want you to download an attachment that will give the sender access to your computer. They aim to gather sensitive financial or personal information, or launch something like a ransomware attack.In the past, malicious spam focused more on using techniques such as viruses. Now that computers are better at auto-updating to patch security holes, spammers are targeting people with social attacks, using techniques like impersonating real companies or people. They’re exploiting human weaknesses more than computer weaknesses.Advertisement“Because the attacks are social, I think they’re worse. There’s nothing I can put on your computer that’s going to help you not be tricked,” Wisniewski said.Unwanted spam emails have become more profitable than they were in the past, according to Ryan Kalember, executive vice president of cybersecurity strategy at Proofpoint. Attacks have become more sophisticated and personal during the pandemic, and there has been a rush of spam targeting people working from home, capitalizing on their fears by pushing fake covid treatments, masks and tests.The vast majority of spam comes from Russia and neighboring countries, say cyber security experts.  Groups specialize in different parts of the process so one might just sell email lists, while another will send out an entire blast for a client, figures out ways around spam filters, or handles the money laundering.Advertisement“The attackers are getting smarter,” said Jeremy Ventura, a senior security strategist at cybersecurity company Mimecast. “Their tactics and techniques are evolving.”How ransomware is impacting regular peopleProofpoint, which has a product that filters spam messages for companies, says that over the past six months, it has noticed that spammers have been increasingly using Google services like Docs or Drive to host their attacks, surpassing Microsoft, which is also heavily used.In response, Google’s Grubelich said: “We are deeply committed to protecting our users from phishing abuse across our services, and are continuously working on additional measures to block these types of attacks as methods evolve.” The company says it “may” scan files like Google Docs when they’re shared.Minimizing spam isn’t easy, and getting rid of it completely is likely impossible. The best hope is that the email providers are able to adjust their filters and AI to counter the latest attacks. But here are some steps you can take.AdvertisementBe security smart: The majority of your spam is likely more annoying than dangerous. Still, use a strong and unique password, and turn on two-factor authentication for your account. If you’re a Google user, do the Google Security Checkup.Turn off auto-load for images: When spammers get any indication that their email was received (you opened the email or you clicked on a link), you are marked as even more of a target for future spam. Make sure your email settings are set to not load any images from unknown senders automatically, which makes it harder for them to use tracking pixels. There are options for this in most email apps like Apple’s Mail and web-based email like Outlook and Gmail.Use an alias for online accounts: Every time you sign up for something online with your email address, you risk it (and other information about you) ending up with third party marketers or being exposed in a hack or data breach. One way to keep your email address unknown is not to use it for anything other than personal correspondence or important accounts, like your bank.AdvertisementYou can set up a second email address that’s just for logins and purchases, and let that inbox become a dumpster of marketing emails. Another option is to use an alias. On Gmail you can make emails that are your real address with “+Facebook” or “+Sephora” at the end, to use for specific sites. At least you’ll know who leaked your email if it ends up being sold in a list.Apple recently added a feature called Hide My Email that takes it one step further, allowing you to sign up for accounts using a unique, anonymous email address it generates for you. It’s for any Apple user accessing a site that works with Sign In With Apple. iCloud+ subscribers can generate more addresses on any site from their iOS device.The three worst things about email, and how to fix themDon’t click unsubscribe in the email: Because some malicious spam looks identical to legitimate marketing spam, avoid clicking the “unsubscribe” link in the email unless you’re certain it’s from that company. Instead, you can let your email service unsubscribe for you.AdvertisementReport spam, if you want: Flag the email as spam. Doing so won’t have an immediate impact on your life — that spammer has already moved on — but it does give your email provider more information to try to stay ahead of them.Dust off your email detective skills: Trust no email. If it looks like it’s from someone you know personally but seems a little off, text or contact them another way to be sure. If you get any kind of alarming email from a major company saying there’s been a large charge or an update on an order you don’t recall making, be suspicious. On a computer, hover over any links to see where URLs go, and read closely to see if there are typos like “BesttBuy.com.”See how compromised your email is: Plug your email address into haveibeenpwned.com and see how many breaches it has appeared in. (The site is trusted by the security experts we spoke to.) Consider using a password manager, which can alert you when different passwords appear in hacks and breaches, or even if they’re just easily guessable or overused.AdvertisementThe nuclear option, start from scratch: If your email address is a scammer’s database and every e-commerce companies’ mailing list, you could start fresh with a new address just for personal or work communication. If you use that old address for online accounts, don’t delete it, or you’ll have to go through and update contact information for every single one. If you’re looking for an alternative to Gmail, you could consider Protonmail.com. Outlook.com, Zoho.com or Hey.com.Help Desk is a destination built for readers looking to better understand and take control of the technology used in everyday life. Go deeper: Tech in Your Life | Tech at Work | Your Data and Privacy | Internet Access | What’s New | Ethical IssuesData and Privacy: A guide to every privacy setting you should change now. We have gone through the settings for the most popular (and problematic) services to give you recommendations. Google | Amazon | Facebook | Venmo | Apple | AndroidAsk a question: Send the Help Desk your personal technology questions.More Tech in your LifeHAND CURATEDUber will order your hot dogs at games now. Getting a ride is harder.News•May 17, 2022Teens are flocking to new photo-sharing apps. Are they safe?News•May 16, 2022Elon Musk has big ideas for Twitter. Users should buckle up.News•April 29, 2022ChevronDownLoading...


How to Report Fraud at ReportFraud.ftc.gov


If you’re getting emails you don’t want in your Gmail inbox, you can block or unsubscribe from the sender, or report the message to Gmail.  
Note: If someone uses Gmail to harass, intimidate, or threaten you, they're violating Gmail's Program Policies. If you feel that you're in danger, contact your local authorities right away, and ask whether any cyber harassment laws apply to your situation.

When you block a sender, messages they send you will go to your Spam folder.

On your Android phone or tablet, open the Gmail app .
Open the message.
In the top right of the message, tap More .
Tap Block [sender].

If you blocked someone by mistake, you can unblock them using the same steps.

If you signed up on a site that sends lots of emails, like promotions or newsletters, you can use the unsubscribe link to stop getting these emails. When you’ve received a lot of email from a sender that you haven’t opened for awhile , Gmail may suggest that you unsubscribe from that list.

On your Android phone or tablet, open the Gmail app .
Open an email from the sender you want to unsubscribe from.
At the bottom of the message, tap Unsubscribe or Change preferences. If you don't see these options, the sender didn't give information required for unsubscribing. Instead, you can follow the steps above to block the sender or mark the message as spam.

Note: It may take a few days for the mailing list to stop sending you messages after you unsubscribe.
To stop seeing the Unsubscribe recommendations:

In the top left, tap Menu     Settings the name of the account you want to change.
Under "inbox Tips," tap Inbox Tips settings.
Next to "Unsubscribe tips," uncheck the box. 


Remove spam from my inbox 

Gmail tries to keep spam out of your inbox, but sometimes messages get through. If you see a spam message in your inbox:

On your Android phone or tablet, open the Gmail app .
Tap the letter or photo to the left of the message, or open the message.
In the top right, tap More .
Tap Report Spam.

Tip: When you tap Report spam or manually move an email into your Spam folder, Google will receive a copy of the email and may analyze it to help protect our users from spam and abuse.

A suspicious email asked for personal information

If you see a suspicious email asking for personal information, you can report the email for phishing.

On your computer, open Gmail.
Open an email from the sender you want to unsubscribe from.
In the top right, click the Down arrow .
Click Report phishing.



   Was this helpful?How can we improve it?      Android ComputeriPhone & iPad   More


If you have an email address, chances are you’ve received a spam email before. Spam emails are unsolicited messages that may ask for monetary donations, alert you about the security of your account or advertise products and services you didn’t sign up for.
While spam emails are annoying at best, they can also be incredibly harmful if they’re laced with malware designed to infect your device or steal your personal information. To prevent this from happening and regain control over your inbox, follow this guide on how to stop spam emails.

While your first impulse might be to delete spam emails as soon as they hit your inbox, this doesn’t do much to prevent them from ever reaching you in the first place.
Many email hosting services provide built-in filters that automatically filter out potential spam messages, but you can increase your protection by further training your spam filter to recognize spam emails. This involves manually filtering spam inside your inbox, and is a tool for more thoroughly preventing spam and reporting spam messages to your email client. Here’s how to do it:

To report an email as spam in Gmail, click the Report spam button. It looks like an exclamation mark and is located at the top of the page next to the Archive and Trash buttons. You can do this from your main inbox page or within a specific message. To filter several emails at once, head to your main inbox and select the emails you want to report, then click the Report spam button.
Once you do this, the selected emails will be sent to your spam folder and you shouldn’t receive emails from those senders in the future.

To report an email as spam in Yahoo! Mail, you’ll click the icon with an “X” labeled Spam in the toolbar at the top of your inbox, next to the Trash button. To report several emails at once, simply perform the process from your main inbox page and select all the emails you want to report before clicking the Spam button.

If you’ve followed the steps above to report an email as spam but find you’re still receiving emails from certain senders, you can block their emails from ever reaching your inbox.


Open a message from the specific sender you want to block.
In the top-right corner next to the sender details, click the three vertical dots to open the options menu.
Click Block [sender].
If you also want to report the message, click the Report spam option below the Block [sender] option.



To block emails in Yahoo, start in the homepage of your inbox.

Select the message or messages from a certain sender you want to block by clicking the check box to the left of the message.
In the toolbar at the top of your inbox, click the three horizontal dots next to the Spam button.
Select the Block senders option.
Review the senders you wish to block and choose your preferred settings for future and existing emails, then click OK. 



Not all spam emails are malicious—sometimes you might just be receiving a large volume of marketing or promotional emails from a certain company or brand that you signed up for at some point. These can clutter your inbox fast, and if you never read them or no longer wish to receive them, you can simply unsubscribe from the mailing list to prevent them from hitting your inbox.
To do this, simply open one of the emails and scroll to the bottom of the message. Find the “unsubscribe” button and click it.

Once you click the unsubscribe button, you might be redirected to a web page that asks you to confirm your unsubscription. If so, follow the steps provided to complete your unsubscription. You will no longer receive marketing or promotional emails from that company.

How can you determine whether an email is a legitimate marketing email from a reputable brand or a dangerous spam email? First, you should look for the tell-tale signs of spam or phishing emails: an unclear subject line, excessive grammar mistakes or anything that conveys a sense of urgency with a payment request are all obvious signs of a spam email.
On the other hand, legitimate promotional emails will always use the official email address of a company. For example, you should be wary of an address that reads SpotifySupport@gmail.com since reputable companies wouldn’t use Gmail as their email host. Instead, it would read support@spotify.com.


Many unwanted messages make their way to your inbox when you order a product or are required to provide your email address to download a particular file. When you do this, some companies automatically sign you up to receive unwanted additional marketing and promotional emails. Signing up and registering with websites using your personal or business email can lead to excess spam in your inbox.
One workaround for this is to create a secondary email address that you use solely for certain online activities, like online shopping, sign-ups and subscriptions. While a secondary email address won’t stop spam from appearing, it will ensure those unwanted emails are sent to your alternative email address instead of your primary account, keeping your main inbox free from clutter.

A simple way to declutter your inbox is to go in and delete any existing spam emails taking up space. This is quick and easy to do using your email server’s search function—simply type “unsubscribe” in the search bar to surface any unwanted promotional emails, select the ones you want to delete, then click the “delete” button or a trash can icon. This allows you to clear your inbox of large volumes of spam emails all at once.

While some types of spam emails are mostly just a nuisance, some can put your personal information or finances at risk. Certain types of spam emails can contain viruses, malware and other threats designed to either compromise your device or compromise your finances (or both). Here are some of the most common types of spam emails to look out for.

Phishing refers to emails that appear to come from a trusted source like a government agency, bank or a reputable company or brand, but are actually intended to trick the recipient into revealing confidential information or sending a payment.
A phishing email may ask you to follow a link to a fraudulent or spoofed website where you’ll be prompted to enter your credit card number or verify your password. Regardless of the specific details in a phishing email, they all have the same goal: capturing sensitive information to exploit you financially or otherwise.

A Trojan horse or Trojan is a type of malware disguised as a legitimate software program. They may be hidden inside free software downloads or come in the form of an email attachment, potentially from someone you know.
Once activated, the trojan installs malicious code, typically in the form of spyware or viruses, designed to create issues with your computer. It may allow the attacker to remotely control your device, lock you out of your accounts or gain access to personal information.

Zombies are a type of malware that is hidden in email attachments. When scammers take over an email account, they’ll proceed to send replies to email conversations that already took place in your inbox—making victims far more susceptible to falling for this type of attack. These messages typically contain a phishing link or a malicious attachment intended to steal victims’ personal data and credentials.

While the tips above can help with removing existing spam and blocking unwanted senders who have made their way into your inbox, the key to a truly spam-free inbox—or as close as you can get to one—requires a more proactive approach. Consider the following tips to prevent your email address from falling into the hands of spammers in the first place.

While most email hosting platforms come equipped with an automatic spam filter, pairing it with a third-party spam blocker can provide an added layer of security and help catch spam that your email host might have missed.
For an easy-to-use free option, Mailwasher is a great choice. Once you sign up, this service will start applying a series of filters to catch unwanted messages. It even lets you review the captured emails online before they actually hit your inbox.
Another effective option is SpamSieve, which is $30 for a paid membership with a free trial available. Similar to Mailwasher, it relies on an intelligent filtering system to sort out spam from your inbox.
As you work with these third-party filters over time and mark which messages are spam and which are safe, both SpamSieve and Mailwasher adapt to your inbox and become smarter in their ability to recognize what’s spam and what’s not.

You should think of your email address as a valuable piece of personal information—because it is. You don’t want to hand it out to just anyone, and it’s best to keep your primary email address as private as you can.
This is important for public pages like social media profiles or a personal website, which are easy targets for scammers or bots to find your email address. Check the account settings on platforms like Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn and make sure your email address is only visible to yourself and your friends.
If you have a job that requires your contact information to be visible online, a workaround to maintain your security is to write your address in longhand. For example, instead of “johndoe@google.com”, the longhand could be “John Doe at Google’s Email Service”. This format is still readable to humans, but prevents automated bots from recognizing it as an email address.

If you’ve ever thought about responding to a spam email, don’t—even if it’s a request to permanently remove yourself from their mailing list. This signals to whoever is on the other end of the email that your account is active, and could lead to receiving even more spam as a result.
Additionally, it’s important to never click on anything in an email from an unknown sender. Even if they seem like a legitimate company, it’s crucial to avoid clicking links or opening attachments from anyone you’re not 100% sure is who they say they are.


Any time you download, purchase or subscribe to something, you’re asked to agree to certain permissions before you can gain access. Some of these terms include an agreement to receive regular emails from the company or permission to share your information with third parties.
While it’s common to skip through the fine print, reading the Terms & Conditions is an easy way to keep unnecessary spam out of your inbox. This goes for apps, accessing gated content online, online games and software and purchases for products or services.


If you’ve tried the strategies above and still can’t keep spam at bay, it’s possible your email was exposed to a data breach or you unknowingly responded to spam in the past. Whatever the cause, a persistent overload of spam might mean it’s time to switch over to a new email account entirely.
You can do this by registering for a new email account with your preferred email host. Once you do, you should notify your contacts from your new account to let them know you’ve changed email addresses. Be sure to keep both addresses active for a few months to keep track of any incoming emails that need to be redirected to your new account.
While your old email account may continue to get spam, this method ensures it stays out of your primary inbox and reduces the chances you’ll accidentally activate a malicious email. Once you can get rid of the old address, you should have significantly less spam.
With automated technology advancing every day, learning how to stop spam emails is crucial to protect your online identity—it only takes a few steps. Once you make it a point to prevent spam emails, email hosts and service providers can filter your inbox. For an additional level of security, use complicated passwords that don’t follow an obvious sequence, and use additional password protection like a strong home antivirus to keep hackers at bay.





 Panda Security
Panda Security specializes in the development of endpoint security products and is part of the WatchGuard portfolio of IT security solutions. Initially focused on the development of antivirus software, the company has since expanded its line of business to advanced cyber-security services with technology for preventing cyber-crime.


Lifestyle / Categories



Fashion
Stories
Beauty
Family
Food
Recipes
Home
Weddings


News
Travel
Books
Tech
Money
Wellness
Fitness
Pets





Trending / Top Stories



2022 Interior Design Trends
5 Haircut Trends That Are Shapin...
Does Hand Sanitizer Work? We Ask...
How to Make Your Home Feel More...
How to Get Rid of Dark Spots Onc...





Videos / Watch



How-to's
Blink Beauty Tutorials
Popular Videos





Cities / Editions



New York
Miami
Dallas
Los Angeles


Hamptons
Chicago
San Francisco







Connect With Us








Sign Up











All Sections




























 








Now ReadingHow to Stop Spam Emails and Declutter Your Inbox Once and for All






SUBSCRIBE
























MORE 



NEXT ARTICLEPsst, You Can Get AirPods for Under $100 Right Now (But You Better Hurry)







SIGN UP NOW







Trending

















Share




Share



Pin



TEXT

Email


Twitter




https://bit.ly/3lgTgfu












						Fashion
				



						Beauty
				



						Family
				



						Recipes
				



						PureWow100
				



						Podcasts
				






























Are you sure you want to remove this item from your Recipe Box?
















Please enter a valid email address...

















Thanks!
The emails have been sent




























Thanks for Sharing!Now like us on Facebook






No, thanksI'm already a PureWow fan.














Want more where that came from?
Follow PureWow on Pinterest
No, thanks I hate pretty things.









































tech





By


Abby Hepworth




|
Nov. 9, 2020










Some ask for monetary donations. Some suggest you will be locked out of your account if you do not click this link. Some promise to enhance or slim down various body parts. We’re all familiar with these unwanted messages, but what we really want to know is how to stop spam emails from inundating our inbox and driving us mad. Luckily, there are multiple ways to address the situation and restore some peace to your chaotic email. Here, five spam-filtering methods you can try, plus additional advice on how to prevent spammers from acquiring your info in the first place.
Note: While spam typically refers to phishing schemes that seek to obtain personal or financial information, we also have tips on how to deal with unsolicited emails from less nefarious sources (like retailers you don’t remember subscribing to) that are more often called junk mail.
RELATED: How to Stop All Those Annoying Spam Calls Once and for All





1. Check the sender’s address
Most spam comes from complex or non-sensical emails like sephoradeals@tX93000aka09q2.com or lfgt44240@5vbr74.rmi162.w2c-fe. Hovering over the name of the sender, which might also look odd (aka, there’s irregular capitalization or spelling), will show you the full email address. You can also Google the exact email address, and the results will often tell you if it's legit or not. 
2. Check the subject line
Anything that sounds overly aggressive or threatening, advertises medications not yet approved by the FDA, promises compromising photos of famous names or purports to have incriminating evidence against you is almost definitely spam.
3. Real companies will always use your real name
If the email doesn’t contain your name, your name is spelled incorrectly or it’s incredibly vague, that should be taken as a red flag. If Netflix really needed you to update your billing information, it would address you by the name your account is under, not “Valued Customer.”
4. Pay attention to grammar and spelling
Look for weird phrasing, words being misused or broken sentences. “Please be informed that transfer time is limited sequel to policy, therefor you are advised to attend as soon as your read this email and also reconfirm your full details to them,” is not a sentence any real company would ever write (and, yes, this was pulled word-for-word from an actual spam email).
5. Confirm the information independently
Not sure whether that Chase email about suspicious activity on your account is legit or not? Don’t reply or click through any of the links. Instead, verify the info by logging into your online banking account or calling your credit card company and handling any issues that way.
6. Are they asking for personal information right away
Real companies and businesses would never ask you to confirm your social security number, credit card information or other sensitive details over email. It’s also rarely the case that someone would need to “update user information” immediately. If there really is some need to update a password or the like, follow step five and do so independently by opening a new tab.
7. If it sounds too good to be true, it definitely is
Oh, a distant relative left you large sums of money and all you have to do is reply with all your banking information? You won a giant prize in a contest you don’t remember entering? Chris Hemsworth spotted you in a restaurant and needs to see you again ASAP? Sorry, but that’s definitely not true.








			
			Luis Alvarez/Getty Images 
			
			




Simply deleting spam emails won’t stop them from appearing in your inbox (nor will replying, but more on that later). However, you can train your email client to recognize which emails you actually want to see and which you consider junk. The way to do this is by using your server’s spam reporting features.
In Gmail, you can do this by clicking the square to the left of whichever email you want filtered, then selecting Report Spam from the top bar (the button looks like a stop sign with an exclamation point on it). It’s a similar process for Microsoft Outlook; just select the suspicious email, then click on Junk>Junk in the upper left to send it to your junk folder. Yahoo users should select any unwanted emails, then click the More icon and select “Mark as Spam.”
Doing this alerts your email client that you don’t recognize the sender and don’t want to hear from them. Over time, your inbox should learn to automatically filter any emails like the ones you’ve been flagging into your spam folder, which automatically deletes anything that’s been in there for longer than 30 days. (Psst, you should also go through your spam folder every once in a while, to ensure that emails you do want aren’t actually ending up in there.)

The less you interact with spam emails (or calls or texts, for that matter) the better. Opening, replying to or clicking the links within an email just alerts the spammer to the fact that this is an active account they should continue to inundate with messages. The best thing you can do is to flag these messages using the methods above and to leave it at that.













			
			Thomas Barwick/Getty Images 
			
			



There are a bunch of apps that can be employed to help protect you from spam or weed out spammers that already have your info. Mailwasher and SpamSieve are two great options, both of which allow you to review incoming mail before it actually hits your inbox. Like your email client, both apps learn over time and become better and better at sorting the things you actually want to see from the things you consider spam.
For handling junk mail, you can try something like Unroll.Me, which makes it significantly easier to mass unsubscribe from unwanted emails. This free service scans your inbox for any and all email subscriptions which you can then choose to unsubscribe from, keep in your inbox or add to what’s called a rollup, which is one email sent in the morning, afternoon or evening and includes all your subscriptions at a glance. The rollup is great for brands you are interesting in hearing from (gotta keep tabs on those Madewell sales) but don’t necessarily want cluttering up your inbox. Another option is to create a folder that filters any emails containing the word “unsubscribe” out of your inbox, so you can deal with them later.



















			
			MoMo Productions/Getty Images 
			
			



Fun fact, Gmail doesn’t recognize periods in email addresses so anything sent to janedoe@gmail.com, jane.doe@gmail.com and j.a.n.e.d.o.e@gmail.com all go to the same inbox. One clever way to work around instances in which your email address may have been sold to spammers is to use a version of your email that contains periods any time you sign up for something (like using a guest checkout at a new brand or to get a free trial). Then just create a folder that filters anything addressed to that alternate email out of your inbox. This can also be a good way to figure out where spammers are getting your information from in the first place.
You can also create an independent email with a completely new name just for shopping or handling memberships. Most email servers make it incredibly easy to link multiple accounts so you can quickly switch from one inbox to another without having to log in and out all over again.












			
			Kathrin Ziefler/Getty Images 
			
			



If all else fails and you’re still receiving enough spam emails to render your inbox impossible to use, it may be time to switch over to an entirely new account. Be sure to update your information anywhere your real email address is necessary (your Netflix or Spotify subscriptions, online banking account, Aunt Linda’s rolodex) and inform any friends or family of the change.

1. Don’t post your email address For instance, avoid sharing your email in public spaces, like social media accounts, LinkedIn pages or personal websites. If your job requires you to publicize your email or you want to be easily contactable to non-spammers, consider writing it out in a different way, i.e. “Jane Doe at Gmail dot com” or “JaneDoe @ Google email” rather than janedoe@gmail.com.
2. Think before you enter your email 
Signing up for tons of message forums or buying something from a somewhat sketchy international retailer probably isn’t a great idea, especially is these websites aren’t widely recognized or reputable.
3. Consider installing a third-party app 
Plugins like Blur work by essentially creating a fake middleman so websites can’t collect your real information. For example, if you go to make a purchase at Madewell and elect to use Blur, the Madewell email database will record the fake address provided by Blur rather than your new one. Any emails Madewell sends this fake address get forwarded to your real inbox where you can decide how to handle them. In this instance if anyone ever hacked the Madewell database, your real email remains safe.
RELATED: How to Stop Getting Junk in the Mail Once and for All
















SHARE25



PIN IT25

EMAIL
EMAIL





SHARE
EMAIL


TEXT































































More





































Company

About
Careers
Contact
Advertise
Press
Instagram Portfolio
ONE37pm





Legal

Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Editorial Policy
Contests
Do Not Sell My Information








Features

News
The Coterie
Quizzes
Featured Content
Gift Guides
Subscription Boxes
Self Care
Face Masks
















Connect With Us







Subscribe








© 2010-2022 Wow Media Products, Inc doing business as PureWow. All rights reserved.















Manage Your Account
Enter your registered email below!




































































Email to a friend (or five).















Hey, you know what would make your day better? Reading this PureWow article.





















Thanks!

				    Your email has been sent.


Trying to stop all spam email is tough, but there are ways for you to thwart the majority of it from reaching your inbox. 
Spam email is unwanted and often unsolicited, clogging your inbox with information from companies, services, or people you don't know or aren't interested in. 
Unsubscribing from mailing lists and setting up email filters are just two options that may help reduce spam email. 
Visit Business Insider's Tech Reference library for more stories.




If you have an email account, chances are you've received plenty of spam. Whether this consists of bulk messages from companies, mailing lists you've never signed up for, or straight-up nonsense from a strange address whose origin you can't trace, spam email is annoying at best and potentially dangerous at worst, especially since scammers use spam to exploit more vulnerable users. Thankfully, there are a few things you can do to stop spam email from reaching your inbox. 



While you may not be able to stop these unwanted messages entirely, putting a few measures in place will reduce the amount of spam you receive and clean up your inbox so messages you want to read are prioritized. Think of your email address as a valuable piece of personal information. You don't want just anyone getting a hold of it, so try to keep it private and avoid posting it in public forums such as message boards or revealing it on websites that have questionable legitimacy.



If you have to provide an email address to use a site but don't want it to have your actual email address, use a throwaway account from a site like TempMail to keep your real account safe. The Chrome and Firefox plugin Blur is also a good, free alternative that will keep your real address private. 




Depending on what email client you use, there is generally the option to create email filters that automatically send messages with a particular subject line or from a particular sender directly to a junk folder or even to your trash folder. Check your client's user guide to determine how to smartly train its filters to detect and remove spam. Likewise, you should correct your client if it happens to mark a certain message as spam erroneously.This step can be implemented with varying levels of success. Given that spammers often use fake email addresses that differ with every mailing, you may find that spam emails continue even after blocking the sender. However, if you notice that you're receiving messages from the same address over and over, you can block it within your email client, which should stop it from hitting your inbox. 
To block emails on Gmail, read our article to learn how. For AOL, see our article on how to block AOL emails. To learn how to block emails on Yahoo, read our article here. For Microsoft Outlook, read our article to learn how to block emails from specific senders on Outlook. You can also block emails on your iCloud account to stop spam emails before they come in.



While it might be tempting to reply to a spam email with an angry tirade or even a request to permanently remove you from their contacts, this never works out. In fact, it could even lead to your account receiving even more spam as the sender will then know that your account is active. It may seem obvious, but if a message seems like spam, it likely is. Don't be tempted to purchase anything from one or click on any links contained within the message, even if it seems to offer a way to unsubscribe to the mailing list. Doing so could lead spammers to gain access to your private information and/or share your address with other companies that could lead to more spam. 



If you find that the number of spam mail messages is getting out of control and following the above steps hasn't helped, it may be time to consider getting a new email address.









Jennifer Still





Jennifer is a writer and editor from Brooklyn, New York, who spends her time traveling, drinking iced coffee, and watching way too much TV. She has bylines in Vanity Fair, Glamour, Decider, Mic, and many more. You can find her on Twitter at @jenniferlstill.

Read more
Read less






















More:
Tech How To
Spam
Email Management
Email Scams




Gmail
Outlook
AOL
Yahoo
iCloud
BI-freelancer




Chevron icon
It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.

 









Close icon
Two crossed lines that form an 'X'. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification.


ComputersStaying SafeTips and Tricks·March 12, 2020ShareIs your inbox full of emails from people you don’t know? If so, you might be receiving spam emails. Spam emails are unsolicited messages, usually sent out for advertising purposes. However, some of these emails are also designed to steal your personal information, like your bank details. If you’re tired of receiving these kinds of messages, here’s how to stop spam emails and get rid of the ones that are currently clogging up your inbox.The first impulse you might get when you receive spam email is to delete them or archive them. However, deleting spam emails won’t stop spammers from sending you more emails. If you want to stop receiving spam emails, you should report them as spam in your email client. Here’s how:To report an email as spam in Gmail, click the Report spam button. First, select an email or several emails by checking the box to the left of the subject line. Then click the button with the exclamation point at the top of your window. You can find this next to the archive and trash buttons.Doing this will send the selected emails to your spam folder, and you should not receive any emails from that sender in the future.The process will be nearly identical if you use another email client. Just look for the “report spam” button, or something similar.To report an email as spam in the Mail app on a Mac, select an email that you want to block and click the Junk button at the top of the window. To train Mail to filter our spam, go to Preferences > Junk Mail > Enable junk mail filtering.If you want to filter spam from coming to your Mail app, you can also click Mail in the Apple menu bar at the top of your screen. Then click Preferences and select the Junk Mail tab at the top of the pop-up window. Finally, check the Enable junk mail filtering box at the top.If you are still getting spam messages, you select them and click the Move selected messages to Junk button. You can find this at the top of your window next to the trash icon. You can also right-click and select Move to Junk.This will train Mail to move emails from the sender to your Junk folder, depending on the settings that you choose.If you are still receiving emails from specific spammers, you can block their email address from ever reaching your inbox again.Open a message from any sender that you want to block. Then click the three-dot icon to the right of the sender’s details. You can find this next to the Star and Reply buttons. Finally, select “Block…” and click Block from the pop-up message that appears.All future messages from this sender will go straight to your spam folder. This process will be similar on different email clients, such as Yahoo Mail.To block emails from a sender on a Mac, click Mail on top of the screen and select Preferences. Go to the Rules tab, then click Add Rule. Insert the email address of the sender in From Contains, and then click OK.To block an email address in Outlook, right-click on the email and hover your mouse pointer over to Junk. Then select Block Sender.To unsubscribe from newsletters and announcements from companies, you can click the Unsubscribe button in an email. You can find this button at the top of the email page or near the bottom. Once you click this button, you might have to go through additional steps.If you can’t find that option, you can use the search function of your browser. Simply hit Control + F on a Windows PC or Command + F on a Mac and type “Unsubscribe” in the search box.Clicking that button means you’ll no longer receive emails from that company.One of the main ways you get spam emails is by using your email to register for freebies or when you sign up with a site to download content online. Doing this allows websites to hold your email address and send you emails anytime they want. So, you might want to think twice about entering your email address when you see that online sale next time.Websites can then sell your email addresses to other companies. These companies are then free to email you advertisements, newsletters, and other unwanted material. This is why you might receive spam emails from companies you’ve never heard of.Therefore, you should be cautious when you give out your email address, no matter what the purpose is. So, if a new cake shop in your area is offering free samples in exchange for personal information, you might want to skip the email address box.If you really want to take advantage of online sales or download a file, you might want to create a second email address. Then you can use that email address as a place where you will receive all the spam emails. This way, spammers won’t invade your primary inbox anymore.If your email address is out in the open, spammers will use this opportunity to send you stuff. To stop this, be sure to hide your email address from the public, especially on your social media accounts. Explore the settings on your Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn accounts to keep your email address to yourself or your friends only.To get rid of existing spam emails in your inbox, you can use the search function in your email client for “unsubscribe.” Then select all the emails and click delete or the trash can icon. If you are using Gmail, make sure to click Select all conversations that match this search.Doing this can get rid of lots of spam emails in your inbox all at once.Once you know how to block spam in Gmail, check out our guide on how to organize your Gmail inbox, so you see your most important messages at the top.  Was this article helpful?       Thanks for your feedback, add a comment here to help improve the articleRelated


Security Center
				



					How To
				


				How to get rid of spam emails
			




facebookShareLinkText
twitterShareLinkText
linkedInShareLinkText











Written by Kyle Chivers, a NortonLifeLock employee







Spam emails, otherwise known as junk mail, are uninvited bulk-sent email messages delivered to an inbox. You probably receive email spam and marketing messages regularly. But there’s one difference between a spam message and marketing message: permission.
Generally, legitimate marketing emails are sent by businesses once you opt in to receive them. They allow you to subscribe to a newsletter, sign up for services, read members-only content, or share messages via email and social media.
Spam messages often come from illegitimate email addresses, and may contain explicit or illegal content. These emails often use scare tactics, contain typos and misleading information, and are sent in bulk from an anonymous sender. They seldom contain an unsubscribe link, and if it does, that link may be embedded with malware. This could lead to cybercriminals gaining access to your computer, smartphone, and other devices.
There are ways to help slow the tide of unwanted emails. So, here are the five simple ways you can take to help eliminate spam emails.

Most email services, such as Gmail, Yahoo Mail, Microsoft Outlook, and Apple Mail have algorithms that filter out spam and junk mail by tucking them away in a folder.
But if you find a spam email in your regular inbox, don't delete the message — mark it as spam. Marking a suspicious email as spam will send it to the spam folder. Moving forward, if you receive any more emails from this address, the spam filter will know no to let it into your inbox.










Click on the square next to the email → Click the stop sign icon










Click the box next to the email or on multiple emails  → Click on the shield icon











Click on the box next to the email → Click on Junk Email Options in the menu → Click on the Block button 











Click the email message → Click on the “X” marked trash can (Junk Mail) icon 
A trained email filter can track and flag addresses that have been blacklisted or contain suspicious phrases like “cheap,” “Viagra,” or “free.” 

There is a golden rule to dealing with spam emails: if it looks like a spam message, it probably is — so delete it without clicking or downloading anything. Such messages may contain software that tells the sender you've opened the email, confirming you have an active account, which may lead to even more spam messages. 
Some malware programs can steal your email address and use it to resend spam messages under the guise of a legitimate address. For example, imposters could pose as someone you know, like a friend, relative, or colleague.
If the message in question appears to come from someone you know, contact them outside of your email. 
Here are few options for deleting spam emails for good. 











Click on the empty box to check the message.
In the top menu click on the stop sign.
In the dropdown menu, click Report Spam.
Click on the Delete All Spam Messages Now option.

Detailed instructions are available on Google's support page.











Check the box next to the email. 
Click on the shield in the above menu. 
Click the Report Spam option.
Navigate to the spam folder.
Click the Delete Emails option.

Detailed instructions are available on the Yahoo! help page.











In the inbox area, click the email. 
In the top menu, click on the Junk Mail option. 
Click on the Junk Email tab in the side menu.
Click the metal trash can to empty the folder.

Detailed instructions are available on the Microsoft Office support page.











Select the Junk Mail option in the left side menu. 
Highlight the desired messages. 
Click on the metal trash can (Delete selected messages) icon.

Detailed instructions are available on the Apple support page. 
When you block spam messages, they're sent to a spam folder. Over time, this folder grows with the flagged messages. So, you’ll want to occasionally empty.
While not completely fool- proof, here are five key factors to look for in a suspicious email.










Requesting personal information 
The sender requests your personal information like address, Social Security number, or banking information.


Irregular email address
The email has a suspicious domain name or uses uncommon characters in the address.


Unknown and unfamiliar senders
Fake emails from people posing as influencers, high-ranking officials or legitimate companies. These companies may claim you’ve made purchases when you haven’t.


Messages that require immediate action
These emails contain action words like, "Immediate," “Limited Time,” and “Urgent" in the title box or subject line.


Email contains typos 
Many fake emails will contain basic typos and errors like misspelling your name or have poor grammar usage.


Giving out your email address can increase the amount of spam email you receive. So if it’s not essential to share, keep it private. Also, consider changing your email privacy settings. Here’s how:











Log-in to your Google account. 
Go to the Security Checkup option to see the devices, security events and other email addresses and devices connected to your Gmail account. 
Adjust the toggle switches to turn features on or off. 
Perform the same process for the Personal Information and Privacy settings. 












Log-in to your Yahoo! Mail Account.
Click on the gear icon. 
Click the Account Information option.
In the Account Security section, click on the Generate app password option. 












Click on your account icon in the upper-right corner of the screen.
In the menu list, click My Account. 
Click on the Privacy and Security options to change the settings. 












Click the apple icon in the upper left corner of the screen. 
Click on System Preferences. 
Click on the Security and Privacy option. 

If you post on social media or leave online comments, don’t post your email. If you have no choice, it might help to create a separate email address to be used solely for social media purposes, thus helping to ensure your main email address remains private.

Your email service provider may have its own filter but pairing it with a third-party spam filter can provide an additional layer of cybersecurity. The emails will travel through two spam filters to reach your inbox. So if it gets through one spam filter, the other should catch it. 
Effective spam filters can protect your devices against malware threats, attacks, and undesirable content. Look for an anti-spam filter that works with your email provider and addresses your own needs. 

If the spam keeps on rolling in, it could mean your email address was exposed in a data breach. It can be hard to prevent spam when cybercriminals have your information. One option in this case is to change your email address.
With free email services like Gmail, it's easy to create multiple accounts so you can limit the spam that appears in your primary inbox. Here’s how:










Start by registering for a new account with your current email service. 
Next, notify your contacts from your new account that you've changed email addresses.
Finally, navigate to the Settings section and add the new email address to forward incoming emails from your old account. 


After creating a new address, you may want to set it up so that you still receive emails from your old address. You can do this by adjusting the forwarding settings.
Forwarding your email address allows you to update your contact information on all accounts tied to your original email account. You can do it in four easy steps:










In the old email account, go to the Settings option.
Click the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab. 
In the Add a forwarding address box, enter the new email address. 
Click “Next” to verify the process. 

Be sure to keep both accounts open for a few months, so you can redirect any remaining messages to the new account.  

Unsubscribing from email lists is an ideal way to keep a low profile. Marketers often get your email address from online forms, social media, and scraping tools, and purchase your information from other companies. So, the less you subscribe to, the less these marketers and spammers can find your address.
The Federal Trade Commission requires companies that send commercial or bulk emails to comply with the CAN-SPAM Act. Initiated in 2003, the law helps set rules and requirements for messages sent; one of the rules is that companies must always provide information for how to opt out of their emails. Non-compliance with these regulations can cost up to $43,280 in penalties from the FTC. 
While the law doesn't prevent marketers from sending spam emails, it does provide a way to stop them from filling your inbox. Here are two ways to unsubscribe from individual and bulk emails.










Most marketing emails will have unsubscribe buttons at the bottom of the email. Some email clients, like Gmail, will also show an unsubscribe button up at the top near the To: and From:.











In the inbox search bar, type "Unsubscribe." 
Click the down arrow next to the box and click on the Create Filter button. 
Click the Delete and Apply Filter to Matching Conversations boxes. 
Create the filter. 

This will move all the selected emails to the trash. In a few clicks, you've unsubscribed and eliminated multiple emails for good. 
Now that you know how to look for and get rid of spam emails, it’s important to know the most common types of threats.  

Spam emails are annoying enough, but some of them can put your digital safety at risk. Some spam messages contain viruses, malware, and other cyberthreats. Here are a few to watch for.











Trojan horses come disguised as a legitimate program. Even if you think you know how to verify whether an email is legitimate, a trojan horse uses deception to get past those defense mechanisms. 
For instance, they can hide inside free software downloads or arrive as an email attachment, possibly from someone you know.
When you open the email, the trojan installs malicious code — typically spyware or viruses — designed to create problems on your computer. 
It may allow an attacker to control your computer, lock you out, steal your data, account information or email addresses. Installing anti-malware software may help you catch these trojans.
To help avoid trojan horses, avoid clicking on pop-up messages on your computer. If you are seeing a lot of pop-ups, consider running an antivirus scan.    

Zombies are a type of malware that also comes in email attachments. They turn your computer into a server and sends spam to other computers. You may not know that your computer is compromised, but it may slow down considerably or the battery may drain quickly. Meanwhile, your computer may be sending out waves of spam or attacking web pages.
One way to avoid zombies is to avoid opening attachments or clicking links in emails from your spam folder.

Phishing emails often try to mimic messages from legitimate financial companies or other businesses you may use. The spam phishing email will ask you to go to a fraudulent or spoofed website to re-enter your credit card number or verify your password. It’s a scheme to capture that personal information.
Vishers will try to have you call them on the phone to provide your personal information. Keep in mind that reputable businesses would not make such requests by email or phone.
Perform a Google search on the company to verify legitimacy to avoid phishing scams.  
For vishers, if you don't recognize the number, let the caller leave a voice-mail message. Local or not, only respond to calls that are in your phone book. 

Sometimes, cyber thieves use old-school scams that might seem legitimate but are fake offers. These play on your desires or good nature: You've won a lot of money or someone urgently needs your help. 
In reality, you haven’t won a lottery or a cruise around the world. And you haven’t been selected by a foreign prince to receive $10 million, in exchange for the use of your bank account number. 
Look for phrases of urgency like, “Immediate,” and “Act Now” in the email’s title to avoid lottery scams and fake offers. Refer back to the Delete Emails section of this post for additional characteristics to look for. 

So far, there is no such thing as a "do not email" list for spam. Until there is, you'll have to take care of spam yourself. 
Fortunately, there are good tools to help you do that. Most email programs include spam filters that can help detect and isolate spam. Many internet service providers filter out spam, so it never reaches your computer. But it's wise to install and run anti-virus security software that can eliminate viruses that may already live on your computer.
Should spam slip through these filters, take the simplest approach to suspicious emails and click Delete. 














Try Norton 360 FREE 30-Day Trial* - Includes Norton Secure VPN






30 days of FREE* comprehensive antivirus, device security and online privacy with Norton Secure VPN.



Join today. Cancel anytime.



*Terms Apply






Start Free Trial


Start Free Trial


Start Free Trial


Start Free Trial

























Editorial note: Our articles provide educational information for you. NortonLifeLock offerings may not cover or protect against every type of crime, fraud, or threat we write about. Our goal is to increase awareness about cyber safety. Please review complete Terms during enrollment or setup. Remember that no one can prevent all identity theft or cybercrime, and that LifeLock does not monitor all transactions at all businesses.




Copyright © 2022 NortonLifeLock Inc. All rights reserved. NortonLifeLock, the NortonLifeLock Logo, the Checkmark Logo, Norton, LifeLock, and the LockMan Logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of NortonLifeLock Inc. or its affiliates in the United States and other countries. Firefox is a trademark of Mozilla Foundation. Android, Google Chrome, Google Play and the Google Play logo are trademarks of Google, LLC. Mac, iPhone, iPad, Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Alexa and all related logos are trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. Microsoft and the Window logo are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. The Android robot is reproduced or modified from work created and shared by Google and used according to terms described in the Creative Commons 3.0 Attribution License. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.































 How to wipe a computer hard drive in 5 steps 









 How to get rid of a computer virus 









 9 simple webcam security tips to deter hackers 









 5 reasons why general software updates and patches are important


Gaming Xbox Nintendo PlayStation Twitch Discord Minecraft SteamPC & Mobile Android iPhone Chromebook Windows Mac Google Sheets Zoom Google Meet Google Photos Microsoft TeamsSocial Media Facebook Instagram TikTok Twitter SnapChat WhatsApp Telegram MessengerInternet VPNs Alexa Google Drive Google Photos iCloud Paypal NotionEntertainment Chromecast Fire TVs Roku Netflix Spotify Kodi Disney+Gadgets Smart Home Echo Google Home iPad Kindle Fire Vizio TVs Samsung TVsVPNs Kodi Xbox On a Router Android Firestick  Subscribe Us                                        Gaming     Discord Minecraft SteamPC & Mobile Android iPhone Chromebook Windows Mac Google Sheets Zoom Google Meet Google Photos Microsoft TeamsSocial Media Facebook Instagram TikTok Twitter SnapChat WhatsApp Telegram MessengerInternet VPNs Alexa Google Drive Google Photos iCloud Paypal NotionEntertainment Chromecast Fire TVs Roku Netflix Spotify Kodi Disney+Gadgets Smart Home Echo Google Home iPad Kindle Fire Vizio TVs Samsung TVsVPNs Kodi Xbox On a Router Android Firestick                         Home       PC & Mobile        Apps        Outlook                                                   Device LinksAndroidiPhoneDevice Missing?If you have an email account, you’ve probably gotten lots of spam (unsolicited emails) in your inbox and are unhappy about it. They may be from someone who may be trying to sell you a product you don’t need, or they could be from unknown senders you’ve never met trying to scam you. We all know the frustration of spam emails. It creates an endless cycle of sorting through your inbox, deleting one, then another, then another just so you can find that one email from a colleague or friend you haven’t heard from in a while. It can be time-consuming and rob you of your privacy.You’ll be pleased to learn that there are certain steps you can take to protect your inbox from a barrage of junk mail. It’s time to deal with them once and for all and you have the power to do it. Let’s get down to it.One of the best ways to deal with spam emails is to minimize all interactions with them. You shouldn’t even open them, but if you do, avoid clicking on any link within them. Clicking on links alerts the spammer that the account is active, thereby giving them the push to continue inundating you with more.When someone bombards you with tons of junk mail, you may be tempted to respond and perhaps tell them to stop. That’s a mistake that most people make. Responding to the email could be validation for the sender with malicious intent, and it may result in an escalation of spam email. In some cases, you may end up giving away more of your personal information.Today, most email services, including Gmail and Yahoo Mail, come with an option to set up an alternate email address alongside your primary address. With an alternate address, you can interact with websites and platforms or forums that could potentially inundate you with spam messages. You can even filter anything addressed to your alternate address into a specified folder for easier management (more on that below).A good way to avoid spam is to unsubscribe from marketing emails. This way, your inbox volume will be kept at a reasonable level without having to delete junk messages. Once you’ve unsubscribed, marketers will exclude you from future mailing lists. But even if they don’t, their messages will no longer find their way into your inbox.Most companies include an unsubscribe button at the bottom of the email. In fact, the Federal Trade Commission requires companies to include an opt-out link in their marketing campaigns. However, there are a few unscrupulous marketers that won’t do so. If your spam emails don’t include the unsubscribe button, you should deal with them through the other ways discussed in this article.Spam emails are not just annoying; they can also be dangerous. With the exponential rise of cyber-attacks, it’s important to be vigilant when dealing with suspicious emails.Spam messages can contain malicious attachments and viruses that could damage your device or infiltrate your system with malware in seconds. Most spam emails will try to trick you into doing something harmful, such as divulging personal information or clicking on a damaging link. Thus, it’s important not to fall into these traps by avoiding all interactions with suspicious emails.Blocking emails from specific senders is an effective measure to stop spam. Most email services offer users a way to block senders in just a few steps. For example, here’s how to block a sender on Gmail:Open Gmail and then open one of the sender’s messages.Click on More in the top right corner.Click on Block.Interestingly, most email services ignore all periods in the address before the domain name. For example, messages sent to [email protected], [email protected], and [email protected] will all end up in the same inbox. This means you can use a version of your email address with periods whenever you want to sign up for a service that could potentially be a source of spam messages. When you want to isolate the emails, you can then instruct your service to move all messages sent to that address to a folder of your choice.If you want to keep your inbox clean and reduce the number of spam emails landing in your account, you should consider not posting your email address in public spaces. These include social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter and professional growth spaces like LinkedIn. But what if your job requires you to publicize your contact details, including your email address? In this situation, you may create an alternate address to filter out the junk.No matter what device you use to access your mailbox, spam emails are a pain. If you have an iPhone, there’s an easy way to stop unwanted spam messages before they reach your phone. Here are the steps:Open one of the emails received from the address you’d like to block.Tap on More.Tap on Block [Sender].Alternately, you may unsubscribe from the sender’s email campaign by tapping on the “Unsubscribe” button, usually found at the bottom of the email.If you have an Android phone and are tired of spam emails, here’s how you can fix the problem:Open the email service and open the spam message.Tap on More in the top right corner.Select Block [Sender].To stop spam emails in Microsoft Outlook:Select the spam email sent from the source you want to block.Right-click on the message and select Junk from the drop-down submenu.Click on Block [sender].We live in an increasingly digital age, where many people communicate via text messages. And just as with email-based spam messages, your phone can be flooded with text messages from unknown sources, some of which can even attempt to steal your data. There is a plethora of companies that send out unsolicited messages to everyone on their contact list.If you receive unwanted messages, you can block the sender as soon as the message arrives. Although the steps needed differ slightly depending on the type of device you’re using, generally, you need to open the message settings section, look for the “block” button, and then enter the phone number to be blocked.Hotmail is one of the most popular email services globally, but it isn’t immune from spam emails. To stop spam messages from flooding your Hotmail account, you can use the unsubscribe button at the bottom of the email message.Another way to stop spam emails in Hotmail involves adding unwanted senders to the “Blocked List.” Here’s how to do it:Open your Inbox and then click on the Settings gear icon at the upper-right corner.Select More.Under “Preventing junk email,” click on “Safe and blocked senders.”Under Blocked senders and domains, click on Add.Enter the email address you’d like to block.Click on Save to complete the process.Are you tired of spam messages clogging up your Xfinity mail account? The best option is to set up spam filters that will automatically send all incoming messages to the spam folder. Here’s how to set it up:Open your Xfinity Connect account.Click the gear-shaped icon in the top right corner.Click on Settings.Select Advance settings.Select Automatically move spam and potentially harmful messages to the Spam folder.All messages directed into the spam folder are deleted after seven days.Yahoo Mail comes with a spam filter tool that keeps them out of your inbox. However, some spam may still find its way into your inbox. If this happens, you can take steps to train the filter and improve its ability to catch unwanted emails. Here’s what to do:Open the Spam email folder.Click on the ellipsis (three small dots) in the top right corner.Click on Filter messages like this…Alternately, you may click on the “unsubscribe” button at the bottom of the email message.   Spammers usually buy email addresses from special providers in bulk to add them to their mailing lists. If you’ve noted a sudden increase in the number of spam emails landing in your account, there’s a high chance that your address was part of a list recently sold to one or more scammers. This usually happens when you enter your email in a field that looks safe but is actually a tool used by scammers to harvest email addresses.   You can report spam emails to the Federal Trade Commission by visiting the following page: www.ftc.gov/complaint.All reports are sent anonymously, so scammers and the authorities themselves cannot trace them back to you.   Spammers often send emails in a way that makes them seem urgent, important, or personalized.Good tips to spot spam emails include realizing you’ve never previously engaged with the sender. Another way is identifying email that is different from known product updates from a company. Always check the “From” address: if it does not match the company’s official contact email address, it’s most likely a fake email. Spam emails are a nuisance and can affect receiving critical information, such as online banking details. You could end up losing your money or exposing your organization to fraud. If you’re tired of your inbox being bogged down by unwanted messages, it’s time to take a stand. Follow some of the steps we’ve outlined for the most effective ways to stem the flow of spam and regain control of your inbox.Have you tried these tips? Did they work for you? Let us know in the comments section below. 
                    May 7, 2022 at 3:19 pm  When I right click on an email in outlook it does not show any block. If I click on move it shows block and every time I do and click on block sender I get inundated with emails from them.         April 27, 2022 at 7:09 pm  When I right-click on a message in Outlook, I don’t see ‘Junk’ as an option. I only see ‘Mark as Junk.’ Is that the same thing?        May 1, 2022 at 10:52 pm  No. If there is no Junk Email folder, try clicking on bottom of navigate> Folders. Also, try Options -> Junk Email.      Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * Email * Website  Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.Please enable JavaScript to submit this form.    Disclaimer: Some pages on this site may include an affiliate link. This does not effect our editorial in any way.          You may also like                                  To email address    From name    Please enable JavaScript to submit this form.                    Please enable JavaScript to submit this form.              Todays Highlights                                                  Categories GamingPC & MobileSocial MediaInternetEntertainmentGadgetsVPNs    Latest                 © Box 20 LLC 2022 Contact Us | Privacy Policy | TOS | All Rights Reserved


May 19, 2022,06:53am EDTApple Safari, Microsoft Windows 11 & Teams, Hacked During $800,000 Zero-Day FestMay 17, 2022,03:58am EDTApple 0-Day Security Warning For Mac, TV, Watch Users—Attacks Maybe UnderwayMay 17, 2022,02:32am EDTiOS 15.5—Apple Issues iPhone Security Update For Millions Of UsersMay 14, 2022,05:30am EDTEurovision 2022 Final—Russian Hackers Say They Can Stop Ukraine Kalush Orchestra WinMay 12, 2022,09:00am EDTGoogle Chrome—Crucial New Security Warning For 3.2 Billion UsersMay 12, 2022,08:38am EDTApple Issues Stunning New Blow To Facebook With Surprise ReportMay 12, 2022,04:56am EDTCritical Microsoft Windows 10, 11 & Server Warning Issued As Attacks UnderwayMay 9, 2022,06:00am EDTReport Calls For Child Influencers To Be Protected From ExploitationEdit StoryCybersecurityEditors' PickDavey WinderSenior ContributorOpinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.Co-founder, Straight Talking CyberMay 3, 2020,06:45am EDT|This article is more than 2 years old.Share to FacebookShare to TwitterShare to Linkedin
Some 320 billion spam emails are sent every day, and 94% of malware is delivered via this medium. What if I were to tell you a surprisingly simple one-click email trick could stop them?

Over half of all global email traffic is spam, a statistic that is only surprising in as far as most people probably expected it to be more than that. To put that into some perspective, the latest analysis from Cisco Talos intelligence puts the average daily spam volume for April at 320 billion. 


Spam is always annoying, sometimes amusing and often dangerous. According to Google, its Gmail service blocks more than 100 million phishing emails every single day, 18 million of them related to COVID-19 in some way. With as much as 94% of malware being delivered by email, and one in every 3,000 email messages containing malware payloads, spam remains a very real problem in 2020. 

But what if I were to tell you a surprisingly simple email trick could stop that spam with just one click?


The history of spam is a long and dishonorable one. I'll skip the email advertisement sent to a couple of hundred users of the Advanced Research Projects Agency Network (ARPANET), a technical precursor to the internet as we know it, back in 1978. Instead, I had to wait until April 1994 before receiving my first spam message: sent to USENET groups rather than by email, advertising a green card lottery service by two lawyers, Canter and Siegel. 

It was this simple advertising message that formed the foundation of what became the junk email phenomenon. That danger was demonstrated almost precisely 20 years ago to the day when the ILOVEYOU worm was distributed by email and infected millions of Windows computers. Across the two decades that have followed, spam has remained the primary vehicle for delivering malware as well as being an ever-present irritant.

MORE FROM FORBESHow This Chinese Google Hack Has Made Working From Home SaferBy Davey Winder
MORE FROMFORBES ADVISOR

Twenty years ago, spam blacklists were the most commonly used anti-spam technique: and oh boy did they suck. Filtering spam by the IPs of known bad senders only works if those IPs are not only known but accurate. Seeing as many spammers used the same internet service providers as everyone else, false positives were the order of the day and most of us turned such filtering firmly off soon enough. 

Dedicated spam filtering solutions using a combination of sender reputation scoring and keywords soon emerged and proved more effective. They did, however, require a period of training whereby the recipient would have to categorize email as being spam or not manually. 


Thankfully, email applications now come with anti-spam measures built-in, and the likes of Gmail, for example, reckon the machine learning algorithms that power the spam filtering for 1.5 billion Google email users are 99.9% accurate. That still leaves way too many actual spam messages getting through when you do the math, and it's dealing with these that is proving difficult. A new one-click email trick that is currently being tested by Mozilla could provide the solution for 250 million Firefox users.

Going by the name of Private Relay, Mozilla is currently testing a new add-on for Firefox users that could put an end to unwanted emails using a single click. The idea behind the new add-in is undoubtedly not new. Still, Mozilla is making it so easy to use that it could revolutionize the way we deal with unwanted, annoying and potentially dangerous emails. 
That idea is email aliases, where you create different email addresses for services and sites that you sign up to while keeping your "real" email to yourself. Gmail users, for example, might sign up with e.xample@gmail.com instead of example@gmail.com as a 'dot' before the @ symbol doesn't change where the email ends up, but does help to identify where spam is coming from. But that's not as easy to manage as the Firefox solution. 
By simply clicking on a "relay" button next to the email fields, once installed, the add-on will allow an alias to be created on-demand. All emails sent to that new address will automatically be forwarded to your actual address. Mozilla describes the Private Relay Firefox add-on as being able to generate "unique, random, anonymous email addresses that forward to your real address," and when done with you can "disable or destroy the email address."
MORE FROM FORBESDownloaded Twitter Data Using Firefox? Could Hackers Have Stolen Your Data?By Davey Winder
This user interface is what makes Private Relay so simple, and so powerful: removing the alias means that no further emails will be received, all spam will be terminated from that sender and any others they might have shared your address with. 
If a service you are using suffers a data breach and logins appear on the dark web, a would-be attacker wouldn't have your email address for use in executing a credential stuffing attack. "We all make many online accounts, but most of them are linked to 1 or 2 of our email addresses," Mozilla said, "this means if just one account is hacked or tracked, every other account and its associated data is now also at risk."
MORE FROM FORBESRevealed: The Supermarkets That Will Sell You Malware For $50By Davey Winder

Ah, yes, the catch. There's always a catch. In the case of Mozilla's Private Relay, it's merely that it is still in testing mode at the moment, an invite-only alpha testing mode. That will change in due course, and by keeping an eye on the Private Relay pages you will be able to sign up to the waiting list and join in "soon," according to Mozilla.
You might also think for old-timers like me who have had the same very public email address for more than 20 years, then maybe it's a little late to start using aliases, but think again. It's never too late to start dealing more effectively with the problem of spam. I'll be front and center of the queue to test this one when the testing expands.
Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website or some of my other work here. Davey WinderEditorial StandardsPrintReprints & Permissions


Thine commercial emails shall not pass!


                    By
                    David Nield
              |
    
    Published Feb 2, 2021 2:00 PM
  




        DIY
      





Don't let your inbox be the digital equivalent of this. Thanhy Nguyen / Unsplash  


SHARE
























Everything that makes email so convenient—free messages, quick delivery—also makes it susceptible to spam. With only a list of addresses (widely available online), professional spammers can merrily bombard their victims with as many messages as they like, and they have a host of automated tools to help them expand their volume and slip past filters.
It’s time to fight back against the deluge. Here are five strategies for banishing spam and learning how to stop junk email for good.


These days, most email clients include some form of spam detection. Your provider will automatically red-flag messages that seem worthless or fraudulent and move them to a special folder where you can review them later. However, these filters will work a lot better if you tell them when they chose well or made a mistake. In other words, the spam filter isn’t an end-all solution on how to get rid of spam emails—you can configure its settings and actions to improve its performance.
For instance, in the Gmail web app, every time you open an email, you’ll see a Report Spam button (it looks like an exclamation mark) at the top of the page. Click this when you encounter a message that managed to sneak past Google’s spam filters. On the other hand, if you check your Spam folder and find a genuinely useful email, open it and click the Not spam button at the top of the page.
In Outlook web client, you mark a message as spam by selecting it in your inbox and clicking on the Junk button on the top. You can then choose to report the message to help improve the accuracy of the filter. When you’re browsing the Junk Email folder, restore a flagged message to your inbox by selecting it and then clicking on Not Junk at the top.
Just about every email client will include options like these. Simply dig into the settings or review the buttons that appear on the page.


Many items that we think of as “spam”—such as newsletters and emails about deals—do aim to make your life better. However, these well-intentioned messages add up, cluttering up your inbox until they become stressful. Rather than deleting them en masse, look for unsubscribe links to stop receiving emails from that source.
These links usually appear down at the bottom of an email—because most of the time, the sender doesn’t really want you to unsubscribe. If you do take time to hunt down these links, they often direct you to a page that asks you to confirm your decision. Once you do so, most sources will respect your wishes and remove you from their mailing lists. For Gmail users, this process is even easier, because if Gmail detects an unsubscribe link in the body text, it displays that link prominently at the top of the email. You can enjoy the same automated action in the Mail app on iOS—it will copy any unsubscribe link in the body text and display it at the top of the email, near the toolbar.
Another option is Unroll.me, a third-party service that scours your inbox for messages from mailing lists and gives you the option to unsubscribe in one click. If you’d like to keep receiving updates, but would prefer to see fewer of them, Unroll.me can condense all of these emails into a single daily message that’s easier to digest. The extension works with Outlook, Gmail, Yahoo! Mail, AOL mail, and iCloud. Although it’s free and it will help you stop unwanted emails, it makes money by collecting anonymized email data on shopping trends, so be aware of that if you plan to sign up.

A lot of unwanted messages make their way into your inbox when you order a product or subscribe to a mailing list—and then the company automatically signs you up to receive unwanted marketing updates or shares your contact information with an advertiser. One workaround for this problem is to create a secondary email address you can use for some of these web activities, such as online shopping or hotel booking.
While another email address won’t stop spam from arriving, those unwanted messages will appear in a secondary email account rather than your primary one, keeping your main inbox free from clutter. If you already use Gmail, Yahoo! Mail, Outlook, or Mail.com, then you can set up a decoy account for free, following the same process you used to establish your original account.
Depending on your email client, you may not need an entirely new account. Many clients will accept variations of your existing email address. For example, Gmail addresses ignore dots, so emails sent to “johnsmith@gmail.com” and “j.ohnsm.ith@gmail.com” will both arrive at the same inbox. Your emails will also come through if someone sends a message to your email address followed by a plus sign and extra words—so messages addressed to “johnsmith@gmail.com” and “johnsmith+extra@gmail.com” will both land in your inbox.
Why is this helpful? It means you can enter a variation on your current email address whenever you sign up for or buy something, and then create a filter to corral anything sent to that address in its own folder. To create a filter in Gmail, click the Options button (it looks like a cog) on the top right, followed by See all Settings and then Filters and blocked addresses. Click Create a new filter, enter your tweaked address in the To field, and then decide what you want to do with these types of emails. You could mark them as read immediately, archive them, slap a shared label on them, or some combination of these actions.


If a lot of junk mail slips through your email client’s spam filter, try adding a third-party app to supplement it. This type of service nabs messages as they travel between an email server (the cloud where messages are stored) and an email client (the display where you actually see your messages).
For a free option, we like the effective, easy-to-use Mailwasher. You just plug in your email login details, and this service applies a series of intelligent filters to identify unwanted messages. You can review the captured emails online before they show up in your inbox. For more features, including access to the app version of Mailwasher and support for more than one email address, you’ll need a Pro account, which costs $31 per year.
On macOS, users recommend SpamSieve ($30 with a free trial available). Like Mailwasher, it relies on an intelligent filtering system that gets smarter over time by recognizing the messages you agree are spam or mark as safe. As it adjusts to your preferences, it will only let genuine messages through.
The free SpamCop service works slightly differently. It allows you to report bad actors to internet service providers (ISPs) so they can block these messages at the source. While it requires more effort—you’ll need to report the unsolicited mass emails you receive—you can find help on the SpamCop website. You also get the pleasure of knowing that your efforts are helping others.

We’ve already spoken about setting up a second email address to take the brunt of the spam you receive. In addition, you should aim to keep your primary address as secret as you can. That means hiding it from public pages, such as your personal website or your Twitter profile, where bots and scammers can collect it.
If your job requires that you make your contact information available, try writing out your email address longhand—something like “John Smith at Google’s email service”—whenever you need to display it on the web. This format makes sense to a human, but an automated bot won’t recognize it as an email address it can collect. You’ll often see this tactic on online contact forms.
In addition to collecting email addresses with bots, some email marketers will use what’s called a tracking pixel, or related technology, to figure out which email addresses are valid. This means they’ll send messages to a variety of addresses, and as soon as a real person opens one of these pieces of bait, the sender will receive a confirmation that the address is in use. To keep your contact information private, avoid opening messages you know are spam—just trash them directly.
Another way to fight tracking pixels is to turn off images—if images won’t load, then neither will tracking pixels. Gmail users can also lean on the Ugly Email extension, which highlights emails that contain trackers.
Because marketing methods evolve constantly, neither of these options are 100 percent foolproof, but they can still reduce the number of bad actors who get their hands on your email address.







David Nield

        David Nield is a freelance contributor at Popular Science, producing how to guides and explainers for the DIY section on everything from improving your smartphone photos to boosting the security of your laptop. He doesn't get much spare time, but when he does he spends it watching obscure movies and taking long walks in the countryside.

      

 





          block spam mail
        



          DIY
        



          email
        



          evergreen
        



          junk mail
        




MORE TO READ





RELATED


                            Sick over high wood prices? These tips can help.
                            
READ NOW







RELATED


                            Enjoy your trip knowing your home will be safe while you're gone. 
                            







RELATED


                            Stop people from peering at your place.


Skip to main content



This browser is no longer supported.
Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support.


Download Microsoft Edge					

More info					















 







































Read in English
























Read in English







Feedback														





Edit






Twitter





LinkedIn





Facebook





Email
















Article														

11/02/2021

7 minutes to read





















Any additional feedback?					


Feedback will be sent to Microsoft: By pressing the submit button, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Privacy policy.







Thank you.    









Note
Want to experience Microsoft 365 Defender? Learn more about how you can evaluate and pilot Microsoft 365 Defender.

Applies to

Exchange Online Protection
Microsoft Defender for Office 365 plan 1 and plan 2
Microsoft 365 Defender


Note
This topic is intended for admins. For end-user topics, see Overview of the Junk Email Filter and Learn about junk email and phishing.

In Microsoft 365 organizations with mailboxes in Exchange Online or standalone Exchange Online Protection (EOP) organizations without Exchange Online mailboxes, email messages are automatically protected against spam (junk email) by EOP.
Microsoft's email safety roadmap involves an unmatched cross-product approach. EOP anti-spam and anti-phishing technology is applied across our email platforms to provide users with the latest anti-spam and anti-phishing tools and innovations throughout the network. The goal for EOP is to offer a comprehensive and usable email service that helps detect and protect users from junk email, fraudulent email threats (phishing), and malware.
As email use has grown, so has email abuse. Unmonitored junk email can clog inboxes and networks, impact user satisfaction, and hamper the effectiveness of legitimate email communications. That's why Microsoft continues to invest in anti-spam technologies. Simply put, it starts by containing and filtering junk email.

Tip
The following anti-spam technologies are useful when you want to allow or block messages based on the message envelope (for example, the sender's domain or the source IP address of the message). To allow or block messages based on payload (for example, URLs in the message or attached files), then you should use the Tenant Allow/Block List portal.


To help reduce junk email, EOP includes junk email protection that uses proprietary spam filtering technologies to identify and separate junk email from legitimate email. EOP spam filtering learns from known spam and phishing threats and user feedback from our consumer platform, Outlook.com. Ongoing feedback from EOP users in the junk email classification program helps ensure that the EOP technologies are continually trained and improved.
The anti-spam settings in EOP are made of the following technologies:

Connection filtering: Identifies good and bad email source servers early in the inbound email connection via the IP Allow List, IP Block List, and the safe list (a dynamic but non-editable list of trusted senders maintained by Microsoft). You configure these settings in the connection filter policy. Learn more at Configure connection filtering.

Spam filtering (content filtering): EOP uses the spam filtering verdicts Spam, High confidence spam, Bulk email, Phishing email and High confidence phishing email to classify messages. You can configure the actions to take based on these verdicts, and you can configure what users are allowed to do to quarantined messages and whether user receive quarantine notifications by using quarantine policies. For more information, see Configure anti-spam policies in Microsoft 365.

Note
By default, spam filtering is configured to send messages that were marked as spam to the recipient's Junk Email folder. However, in hybrid environments where EOP protects on-premises Exchange mailboxes, you need to configure two mail flow rules (also known as transport rules) in your on-premises Exchange organization to recognize the EOP spam headers that are added to messages. For details, see Configure EOP to deliver spam to the Junk Email folder in hybrid environments.


Outbound spam filtering: EOP also checks to make sure that your users don't send spam, either in outbound message content or by exceeding outbound message limits. For more information, see Configure outbound spam filtering in Microsoft 365.

Spoof intelligence: For more information, see Anti-spoofing protection in EOP.



It's possible that good messages can be identified as spam (also known as false positives), or that spam can be delivered to the Inbox (also known as false negatives). You can use the suggestions in the following sections to find out what happened and help prevent it from happening in the future.
Here are some best practices that apply to either scenario:

Always report misclassified messages to Microsoft. For more information, see Report messages and files to Microsoft.

Examine the anti-spam message headers: These values will tell you why a message was marked as spam, or why it skipped spam filtering. For more information, see Anti-spam message headers.

Point your MX record to Microsoft 365: In order for EOP to provide the best protection, we always recommend that you have email delivered to Microsoft 365 first. For instructions, see Create DNS records at any DNS hosting provider for Microsoft 365.
If the MX record points to some other location (for example, a third-party anti-spam solution or appliance), it's difficult for EOP to provide accurate spam filtering. In this scenario, you need to configure Enhanced Filtering for connectors (also known as skip listing). For instructions, see Enhanced Filtering for Connectors in Exchange Online.

Use email authentication: If you own an email domain, you can use DNS to help insure that messages from senders in that domain are legitimate. To help prevent spam and unwanted spoofing in EOP, use all of the following email authentication methods:

SPF: Sender Policy Framework verifies the source IP address of the message against the owner of the sending domain. For a quick introduction to SPF and to get it configured quickly, see Set up SPF to help prevent spoofing. For a more in-depth understanding of how Microsoft 365 uses SPF, or for troubleshooting or non-standard deployments such as hybrid deployments, start with How Microsoft 365 uses Sender Policy Framework (SPF) to prevent spoofing.

DKIM: DomainKeys Identified Mail adds a digital signature to the message header of messages sent from your domain. For information, see Use DKIM to validate outbound email sent from your custom domain in Microsoft 365.

DMARC: Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance helps destination email systems determine what to do with messages that fail SPF or DKIM checks and provides another level of trust for your email partners. For more information, see Use DMARC to validate email in Microsoft 365.



Verify your bulk email settings: The bulk complaint level (BCL) threshold that you configure in anti-spam policies determines whether bulk email (also known as gray mail) is marked as spam. The PowerShell-only setting MarkAsSpamBulkMail that's on by default also contributes to the results. For more information, see Configure anti-spam policies in Microsoft 365.




Verify your organization settings: Watch out for settings that allow messages to skip spam filtering (for example, if you add your own domain to the allowed domains list in anti-spam policies). For our recommended settings, see Recommended settings for EOP and Microsoft Defender for Office 365 security and Create safe sender lists.

Use the available blocked sender lists: For information, see Create blocked sender lists.

Unsubscribe from bulk email If the message was something that the user signed up for (newsletters, product announcements, etc.) and contains an unsubscribe link from a reputable source, consider asking them to simply unsubscribe.

Standalone EOP: create mail flow rules in on-premises Exchange for EOP spam filtering verdicts: In hybrid environments where EOP protects on-premises Exchange mailboxes, you need to configure mail flow rules (also known as transport rules) in on-premises Exchange. These mail flow rules translate the EOP spam filtering verdict so the junk email rule in the mailbox can move the message to the Junk Email folder. For details, see Configure EOP to deliver spam to the Junk Email folder in hybrid environments.



Here are some steps that you can take to help prevent false positives:

Verify the user's Outlook Junk Email Filter settings:

Verify the Outlook Junk Email Filter is disabled: When the Outlook Junk Email Filter is set to the default value No automatic filtering, Outlook doesn't attempt to classify messages as spam.  When it's set to Low or High, the Outlook Junk Email Filter uses its own SmartScreen filter technology to identify and move spam to the Junk Email folder, so you could get false positives. Note that Microsoft stopped producing spam definition updates for the SmartScreen filters in Exchange and Outlook in November, 2016. The existing SmartScreen spam definitions were left in place, but their effectiveness will likely degrade over time.

Verify the Outlook 'Safe Lists Only' setting is disabled: When this setting is enabled, only messages from senders in the user's Safe Senders list or Safe Recipients list are delivered to the Inbox; email from everyone else is automatically moved to the Junk Email folder.


For more information about these settings, see Configure junk email settings on Exchange Online mailboxes in Microsoft 365.

Use the available safe sender lists: For information, see Create safe sender lists.

Verify users are within the sending and receiving limits as described in Receiving and sending limits in the Exchange Online service description.

Standalone EOP: use directory synchronization: If you use standalone EOP to help protect your on-premises Exchange organization, you should sync user settings with the service by using directory synchronization. Doing this ensures that your users' Safe Senders lists are respected by EOP. For more information, see Use directory synchronization to manage mail users.



At Microsoft, we believe that the development of new technologies and self-regulation requires the support of effective government policy and legal frameworks. The worldwide spam proliferation has spurred numerous legislative bodies to regulate commercial email. Many countries now have spam-fighting laws in place. The United States has both federal and state laws governing spam, and this complementary approach is helping to curtail spam while enabling legitimate e-commerce to prosper. The CAN-SPAM Act expands the tools available for curbing fraudulent and deceptive email messages.












Submit and view feedback for


This product



This page






View all page feedback




































Previous Version Docs
Blog
Contribute
Privacy & Cookies
Terms of Use
Trademarks
© Microsoft 2022























































Previous Version Docs
Blog
Contribute
Privacy & Cookies
Terms of Use
Trademarks
© Microsoft 2022


Use the Block or Allow settings to help control unwanted and unsolicited email messages by creating and managing lists of email addresses and domains that you trust and those that you don’t. 




This article is for Outlook Web App, which is used by organizations that  manage email servers running Exchange Server 2013 or 2010. If you're using Microsoft 365 or Exchange Server 2016, your email program is Outlook on the web. For help with Outlook on the web, see Get help with Outlook on the web.








At the top of the screen, select Settings  > Mail.



Under Options, select Block or allow.



Below are the block or allow settings for managing email addresses and domains:




Settings


Description






Don’t move email to my Junk Email folder


Select this option if you want to turn off junk email filtering. If you select this, you won’t be able to use any of the other options on this page. 

Warning: If you select this option, email detected as spam by Exchange Online Protection will be delivered to your Inbox if the spam action set by your administrator is to move these messages to the Junk Email folder.






Automatically filter junk email


Select this option if you want to use junk email filtering. This filter is in addition to the junk email filter that’s been set by your administrator.




Safe Senders and Recipients


Safe senders and recipients are domains and people whose email you don’t want diverted to your Junk Email folder. Add senders you trust and recipients that you don't want to block to this list. For more details, see Safe senders and recipients.




Trust email from my contacts


If you select this check box, email from any address in your contacts folders will be treated as safe. For more details, see Safe senders and recipients.




Blocked Senders


Blocked senders are domains and people you don't want to receive email messages from. Messages received from any email address or domain in your blocked senders list are sent directly to your Junk Email folder. For more details, see Blocked senders.




Don’t trust email unless it comes from someone in my Safe Senders and Recipients list or local senders


In addition to Safe Senders and Recipients and Blocked Senders, you can use this setting to treat all email as junk unless it comes from someone included in your Safe Senders and Recipients list. For more details, see Blocked senders.










Safe senders are people and domains you always want to receive email messages from. Safe recipients are recipients that you don't want to block, usually groups that you’re a member of. Messages received from any email address or domain in your safe senders and recipients list are never sent to your Junk Email folder. 

IMPORTANT: The server that hosts your mailbox may have junk email filtering settings that block messages before they reach your mailbox.






Sign in to Outlook Web App. For help, see Getting started in Outlook Web App. 



At the top of the page, select Settings  > Mail.



Under Options, select Block or allow.



To add an entry to Safe senders and recipients, enter the email address or domain that you want to mark as safe in the Enter a sender or domain here text box, and then press Enter or select the Add icon   next to the text box.


For example, to mark all email from addresses that end in contoso.com as safe, enter contoso.com in the text box.



To mark a specific person as safe, enter that person's full email address. For example, to mark all messages from KatieJ@contoso.com as safe, enter KatieJ@contoso.com in the text box.






(Optional) Select the Trust email from my contacts check box to treat email from any address in your contacts folders as safe.



Select Save to save your changes.












To remove an entry from Safe senders and recipients, select the entry and select Remove.



Select Save to save your changes.












To change an entry in Safe senders and recipients, select the entry and select Edit .



Make any changes you want, and select Save to save your changes.








Blocked senders are people and domains you don't want to receive email messages from. Messages received from any email address or domain listed in your blocked senders list are sent directly to your Junk Email folder.






Sign in to Outlook Web App. For help, see Getting started in Outlook Web App. 



At the top of the page, select Settings  > Mail.



Under Accounts, select Block or allow.



To add an entry to Blocked senders, enter the email address or domain that you want to block in the Enter a sender or domain here box, and then press Enter or select the Add icon   next to the text box.


For example, to block all email from addresses that end in contoso.com, enter contoso.com in the box.



To block a specific person, enter that person's full email address. For example, to block all messages from KatieJ@contoso.com, enter KatieJ@contoso.com in the box.






(Optional) Select the Don’t trust email unless it comes from someone in my Safe Senders and Recipients list or local senders check box to treat all email as junk unless it comes from someone included in your Safe Senders and Recipients list or local senders.



Select Save to save your changes.












To remove an entry from your Blocked senders list, select the entry and select Remove..



Select Save to save your changes.












To change an entry in Blocked senders, select the entry and select Edit .



Make any changes you want, and select Save to save your change.


Nobody likes spam. If you’re not careful, advertisements, chain letters, and other forms of spam can easily flood your inbox, and deleting them can feel like an endless game of whack-a-mole. That said, wouldn’t it be great to know how to stop said emails? After all, are few worse ways to start your day than sitting down at your computer with a warm cup of coffee, only to see a glut of spam messages spill out in front of you.

Contents
Step 1: Manage your spam filtersStep 2: Unsubscribe from commercial emailsStep 3: Keep your email address out of spammer’s handsStep 4: Opt for some spam-blocking software


It’s important to note, however, that you will never be able to stop all spam mail. Since sending spam is so easy, many scammers will never stop using it, even if it often doesn’t work. Still, if you take the right precautions, you can trim your incoming spam emails to a manageable amount. Here’s how.


How to create a disposable email address
Best free antivirus software
How to stay anonymous online


Most email services have built-in features to protect against spam. Your email service may automatically deem certain incoming emails as spam based on various factors — such as specific, “spammy” words in the message, or use of attachments — and you can “train” this filter by manually marking any spam that makes it through. In Gmail, for example, when you open a message that you consider spam, you can open the drop-down menu next to the reply bottom in the upper-right corner, then click Report spam.

This will move the email in question to your spam folder, and, more importantly, sends data to Gmail so that its machine learning programs can more accurately detect spam.
You can also set spam filters yourself. If you find yourself getting a lot of spam with common themes — perhaps you get a lot of offers about jobs where you can make $500 a day working from home — you can create a filter to send such messages directly to your spam folder.
If using Gmail, for example, click the gear icon in the upper-right and click Settings from the resulting drop-down menu.

Select the tab labeled Filters and blocked addresses. Under the heading The following filters are applied to all incoming mail, you will see all the filters you have applied — or none, if you haven’t.

Click Create a new filter to open a window where you can specify certain things that you consider to be spam.

For example, filter out any messages that contain certain words (such as “Work from home”), or any messages that include attachments greater than 2MB in size.

Not all unwanted emails are malicious; it’s likely that much of the clutter in your inbox consists of commercial messages, such as when a clothing store sends you a promo for an upcoming sale. Although these can be annoying, it’s easy enough to opt out of them. Under U.S. law, commercial emails must include “a clear and conspicuous explanation of how the recipient can opt out of getting email from [the sender] in the future.” Many such emails will feature an “unsubscribe” button, usually near the bottom of the message. While it may be annoying to have to go into an email and look for the unsubscribe button, once you do, you won’t need to worry about receiving emails from that sender later on.

One of the best precautions you can take to cut down on spam is to keep your email address as private as possible. If you have a work email, only give it out to people you know professionally, and avoid posting it on popular sites or social media services — if your job depends on maintaining an online presence, this might be difficult. Maintain a separate email address for commercial purposes (such as when a business or restaurant offers to email your receipt rather than print it).
It will likely be impossible to prevent every spam message from reaching you, but following the tips above should help stanch the flow.

If you want an additional layer of protection beyond what your email client provides, you can also install software specifically to filter spam from your inbox. If you’re looking for free spam-filtering software, you can utilize applications such as Spamhilator (Windows) or SpamSieve (MacOS), both of which can connect to your email client and may offer tools that email clients don’t, thus giving you a higher detection rate.

		Editors' Recommendations	



					Windows 11 could get a mysterious new ‘Designer’ app				



					Websites may be logging your email and password without you knowing				



					New App Store rule lets companies charge more for subscriptions without approval				



					The most common Zoom problems and how to fix them				



					Best Adobe Photoshop deals for May 2022


Blocking someone will stop their email coming to your Inbox. 




To block someone in Outlook.com, select the messages or senders you want to block.



From the top toolbar, select Junk > Block (or Spam > Block).



Select OK. The messages you select will be deleted and all future messages will be blocked from your mailbox.




Notes: 


To unblock someone, open your Blocked senders list and select the   next to their name.


If you're still receiving email in your Inbox from a sender you blocked, see Receiving email from blocked senders in Outlook.com.







Select the messages you want to mark as junk.



At the top of the screen, select Junk > Junk (or Spam > Spam) to move the message to your Junk or Spam folder.




Notes: 


If email is being sent to your Junk folder in error, read Mail goes to the Junk folder by mistake.


Messages in your Junk folder are automatically deleted between 10 and 30 days after they arrive.





Select the arrow to see more.




This will block everyone except those in your Safe senders list. Remember to include everyone you want to hear from.


Open your Safe senders and domains and select Add.



Type the email addresses or domains of your contacts and other people you want to add, and press Enter.



Under Filters, select from:


Only trust email from addresses in my Safe senders and domains list and Safe mailing lists



Block attachments, pictures, and links from anyone not in my Safe senders and domains list






Select Save.










Use this feature to block individuals or organizations.


Open Blocked senders and domains and select Add.



Type the email address or domain that you want to block, and press Enter.



Select Save.

Notes: 


To remove someone from a list, select   next to the email address or domain.


You can have up to 1,024 addresses or domains in the Blocked senders and Safe senders lists. If you want to add more than that, try blocking domains instead of individual email addresses.













Rules can help filter out specific words that repeatedly come from different or hidden email addresses.


Open your Outlook.com Rules and select + Add new rule.



Every rule needs at least three things: a name, a condition, and an action.
	Rules can also contain exceptions to conditions. You can add multiple conditions, actions, and exceptions at each step by choosing Add a condition, Add an action, and Add an exception.﻿ 
	For example, to create a rule that deletes all email with the word "weather" in the subject:Name = "Weather"; Condition = Subject includes "Weather"; Action = Delete

Tips: 


Rules only work on email in your Inbox.


If you don't want any more rules to run after this one does, select the Stop processing more rules check box. For more information, see Stop processing more rules in Outlook.com.






Press Save to create your rule.﻿










When you post to a message board, newsgroup, chat room, or other public website, spell out your entire email address, for example, chesterbeane AT outlook DOT com. This way, a person can interpret your address, but the automated programs that spammers use often can't.







Spammers get rich when people buy their "products." Don't reply to spam (even to unsubscribe), buy anything from an unfamiliar business, or agree to hold or transfer money for anyone. Beware of messages that appear to come from Microsoft and that ask for your password or threaten to close your account or expire your password. They're false.







You can greatly reduce your risk from hackers, viruses, and worms if you have a firewall, keep your Windows and Microsoft Office software up to date, and install antivirus and anti-spyware software (and update all routinely).







If you want to stop receiving newsletters or promotions, you can unsubscribe from your inbox.


In your inbox, select a newsletter or promotional email.



At the top of the reading pane, select Unsubscribe.










When you shop online, companies sometimes pre-select check boxes that indicate you agree that it's fine to sell or give your email address to responsible parties. If you don't want to receive email from those companies, make sure you clear the check boxes.







Avoid posting your email address on social networking sites, large Internet directories, or job-posting sites. Don't even post it on your own website, unless you disguise it as described in "Disguise your email address", below.







When you sign up for web-based services such as banking, shopping, or newsletters, carefully read the privacy policy before you reveal your email address so you don't unwittingly agree to share confidential information.
The privacy policy should outline the terms and circumstances regarding if or how the site will share your information. If a website doesn't post a privacy statement, consider taking your business elsewhere.
















To get support in Outlook.com, click here or select   on the menu bar and enter your query. If the self-help doesn't solve your problem, scroll down to Still need help? and select Yes.
To contact us in Outlook.com, you'll need to sign in. If you can't sign in, click here. 












For other help with your Microsoft account and subscriptions, visit Account & Billing Help.










To get help and troubleshoot other Microsoft products and services, enter your problem here. 












Post questions, follow discussions and share your knowledge in the Outlook.com Community.








Safe Senders in Outlook.com


Receiving email from blocked senders in Outlook.com


How to deal with phishing in Outlook.com


Share







					Save				

					Saved				





Share on Facebook






















Save on Pinterest





Tweet this





Email




Next




 Skip to main content



 




 


A Trusted Friend in a Complicated World 




			Sign Up for Newsletters		



			Subscribe Now		



			Give a Gift		

















 












 


1 Year for Only $10!


									Give a gift								

									SUBSCRIBE								





 


1 Year for Only $18!


									Give a gift								

									SUBSCRIBE								










							Sign Up for Newsletters						





 




				Subscribe				







Subscribe
1 Year for Only $10!


 



RD Large Print
1 Year for Only $18!


 



						Sign Up for Newsletters					








The Healthy
Food
Home
Humor
Knowledge
Holidays
Subscribe
 



 

 



  


RD.COM  Tech  Personal Tech  Laptop & Tablet 


 


Brooke NelsonUpdated: May 04, 2022 

 



  

If your inbox is flooded with junk emails, you are not alone. Spam messages made up nearly 50 percent of email traffic in September 2020, according to data from Statista. What’s more, out of the 293.6 billion emails sent daily in 2019, the majority were promotional emails from marketers. But not every email in your inbox is a harmless ad. Some could put your device and security at risk, experts say.
“Over the years, spam emails from legitimate businesses have reduced somewhat, and spam emails coming from scammers and thieves has become the norm,” says Adam Kujawa, a security expert at Malwarebytes. Cybercriminals often hide malicious links or software inside emails, or trick their victims into sharing personal or financial information in a practice called phishing.
Think twice before you click “unsubscribe” on that suspicious email, though. Believe it or not, using the “unsubscribe” button could actually backfire, so it is safer to block the sender through your email provider instead. Experts explain how to block emails using your mail server, what to do if you receive a suspicious email, and why you get these annoying emails in the first place. Learn how to block websites on Chrome, how to stop spam texts and how to stop getting junk mail for good, too.
ⓘ

It is common to get phishing and junk emails when you give your email address to shady websites, like filling out forms for ads promising “free stuff.” But these days, even the most careful email users can end up with a flood of spam, according to Kujawa.
Hackers can steal your email address by breaching legitimate services and organizations you shared it with and then selling that information to cybercriminals hoping to scam you. (That’s not the only scary thing hackers can do with your email address.) Businesses and advertisers also share public contact lists to send out mass marketing emails.
Fortunately, most email providers—including Gmail, iPhone, Outlook, Yahoo, Hotmail, and AOL—allow users to block spam and junk emails on their platforms. “Blocking spam is often as simple as notifying your provider by marking something as spam,” according to Theresa Payton, CEO of Fortalice Solutions, a cybersecurity firm. Follow this step-by-step guide to block emails with each mail server.

Web browser

Open an email from the sender that you want to block
Click the three-dot “More” icon in the top right corner
Click “Block”

App

Open an email from the sender that you want to block
Tap the three-dot “More” icon in the top right corner
Select “Block Sender”



Open the Mail app
Open an email from the sender that you want to block
Tap the sender’s name
Tap the address listed next to “From” in the header
Choose “Block This Contact”
Confirm you want to block the contact

FYI, phishing emails are just one of 2021’s top security threats to smartphones.

Web browser

Open an email from the sender that you want to block
Click on the three horizontal dots in the top right corner
Select “Block”

App

Open an email from the sender that you want to block
Tap on the three-dot icon in the top right corner
Select “Move to Spam”

Desktop

Right-click on an email from the sender that you want to block
Click “Junk” > “Block Sender”


Web browser

Open an email from the sender that you want to block
Click the three-dot icon at the top of the email
Click “Block Sender”

App

Tap the menu in the top left corner
Choose “Tools” > “Filters”
Tap the “+” icon in the top right corner
Choose a name for the new filter
Type the email address you want to block in the “Sender” field



Click “Home” > “Parameter” > “View All Outlook Settings”
Click “Email” > “Junk Email” > “Filters”
Type the sender’s name under “Blocked Senders”



Under your username, click “Options/Mail Settings”
Click the “Block Senders” tab
Enter the email address you want to block
Click the “+” icon
Select “Save Settings”


Ignoring suspicious emails is the most surefire way to protect yourself against hackers and thieves. “As long as you don’t click any unknown or unsolicited links, attachments, or download files, you will have done just about everything you can do to avoid any attacks on your computer or your data,” says James E. Lee, the chief operative officer at Identity Theft Resource Center.
If you receive an email from someone you trust but feel unsure about the link or attachment, Payton recommends contacting the sender or running the link or attachment through VirusTotal, a free online service that analyzes suspicious files and URLs to detect malware. And before responding to the email, watch out for the serious signs you’re about to fall for a phishing scam.

Don’t waste your time clicking “unsubscribe” on every spam email you get. Not only could you accidentally click on a malicious link, but it is also “a tiny band-aid on a much larger wound,” Kujawa says. If you receive a lot of spam, experts suggest starting fresh with two new email accounts: One for marketing deals and another for private emails with friends and family. Payton recommends using an email service that has a more rigorous spam filter, such as Proton Mail.
Once you have a new email address, make sure to limit when and with whom you share it. “You should only share personal information with trusted organizations and only when it is required,” Lee says. He also suggests protecting your accounts with privacy tools like multi-factor authentication (MFA), if possible. Stay ahead of the hackers by stealing the secrets of people who never get hacked.
Sources:

Statista.com: “Global spam volume as percentage of total email traffic from January 2014 to September 2020, by month”
Adam Kujawa, Director of Labs at Malwarebytes
Theresa Payton, author of Manipulated: Inside the Cyberwar to Hijack Elections and Distort the Truth and CEO of Fortalice Solutions
James E. Lee, chief operating officer at Identity Theft Resource Center
VirusTotal.com

JMiks/ShutterstockWhat Happens When You Ignore Security Warnings on Your Computer
takasuu/Getty ImagesCan iPhones Get Viruses? What You Need to Know About Malware on iPhones
Getty Images (2)How to Remove Hidden Malware from Your Android Phone
 

 

		Originally Published: May 21, 2021	




 Brooke Nelson


				Brooke is a tech and consumer products writer covering the latest in digital trends, product reviews, security and privacy, and other news and features for RD.com.			

 


 

 











 

Now Trending









The Best 11 Places to Buy Glasses Online






 




18 Online Security Secrets from Internet Security Experts






 




How to Tell If Your Computer Has Been Hacked


 
 




 



 



 



 







 







 






  

The Healthy
Food
Home
Humor
Knowledge
Travel
Videos
Subscribe
 


Our Brands
Taste of Home
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
 
LifeRich Publishing
Advertise with Us
About Us
Contact Us
Customer Service
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Do Not Sell My Personal Information – CA Residents
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
 © 2022 Trusted Media Brands, Inc.        






Enter email address






		Enjoy the BEST stories, advice & jokes!	


 








 







 





						Search terms					










We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.


Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge





























































Arts & EntertainmentMore Items

Books
Personality Type
Quotes
Royal Family
Zodiac
ALL ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT


Beauty & FashionMore Items

Clothing
Hair Care
Hair Styles
Makeup
Shoes & Accessories
Skincare
ALL BEAUTY & FASHION


FoodMore Items

Healthy Eating
News & Advice
Recipes
ALL FOOD


Holidays & Observances
HomeMore Items

Cleaning
Decor
DIY
Gardening
Organizing
Pest Control
Repair
ALL HOME


HumorMore Items

Cartoons
Funny Stories & Photos
Jokes
ALL HUMOR


JokesMore Items

Submit Your Joke
Submit Your Cartoon
Corny Jokes
Funny One-Liners
Knock-Knock Jokes
Riddles
ALL JOKES


KnowledgeMore Items

Brain Games
Etiquette
Facts
Grammar & Spelling
Psychology
ALL KNOWLEDGE


MoneyMore Items

Budgeting
Deals
Retirement
Scams
Spending
Taxes
ALL MONEY


Pets & AnimalsMore Items

Cats
Dogs
ALL PETS & ANIMALS


RelationshipsMore Items

Dating
Friendships
Marriage
Parenting
ALL RELATIONSHIPS


TechMore Items

Internet
Personal Tech
ALL TECH


TravelMore Items

Airlines
Airport Security
Packing & Accessories
Vacations
ALL TRAVEL


True StoriesMore Items

Holiday Stories
Inspiring Stories
Love Stories
Nicest Places
Survival Stories
ALL TRUE STORIES


Work & CareerMore Items

Career Planning
Succeeding at Work
ALL WORK & CAREER


Videos
Contests
Shop
Subscribe
Newsletters
About Us
Follow UsMore Items

Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter


Answer Line
			
 
				We're all sick of Nigerian scams, pseudo-sexy invitations, and click-for-malware buttons. 			



  

  

  

  

  

  
 





			Answer Line		


 By Lincoln Spector, Contributing Editor,    PCWorld Jun 7, 2016 3:00 am PDT 












Frank Miller (and no, I don’t know if he’s that Frank Miller) asked if there was “a way to stop or reduce the spam mail that I receive?”
Short of cutting yourself off from the Internet, there’s no way to eliminate spam entirely. The best you can do is filter out most of it, and even that has some unfortunate consequences.
Your email client (the local program or cloud-based service you use to access and send email) almost certainly filters spam, moving suspicious messages to a separate folder. But it’s not perfect. Some spam tricks the filter and ends up in your inbox. And some legitimate messages, called false positives, end up in the spam folder.
While we can’t remove these errors entirely, we can reduce them.



[Have a tech question? Ask PCWorld Contributing Editor Lincoln Spector. Send your query to answer@pcworld.com.]

When you find spam in your inbox, don’t just delete it. Select it, and tell your mail client that this particular message is spam. How you do this depends on your client. For instance, if you’re using Gmail’s website, click the Report spam button in the toolbar (the icon looks like an exclamation point inside a stop sign).
You also need to train the client about your false positives. Once a day, go through your spam folder looking for messages that don’t belong there. When you find one, select it and tell the client that it made a mistake. In Gmail, you click the Not spam button.
If your mail client is halfway decent, it will learn from these mistakes…but only if you train it.

If you recognize something as spam before you open it, don’t open it. If you open it and then realize it’s spam, close it. Do not click a link or a button, or download a file, from a message that you even remotely suspect is spam.
If you opened a spam because it appeared to be coming from a friend or co-worker, contact them immediately and let them know that their account has been compromised.

The more people who have your email address, the more spam you’re going to get. So keep your address close to your chest.
Don’t publish it on the web unless you absolutely have to. (I have to, and it’s not fun.) And if you have to, use a different address for that purpose.
Use disposable email addresses when you’re not comfortable sharing your real one. I use Blur, a free Chrome and Firefox extension, for that purpose. Other options include spamex and mailshell.

Most of the major security suites come with an anti-spam filter that can augment the one on your client—but only if that client is local. In other words, they can work with Office’s Outlook program, but not with Outlook.com.
Back in April, AV-Comparatives published an Anti-Spam Test report to see how well these tools worked. ESET Smart Security 9 got the highest score for catching spam and integrating with Outlook.

This is a very drastic option, but if you’ve responded to spam in the past or haven’t hidden your address, and are therefore overloaded with spam, it may be your best option.
Of course you’ll have to inform your legitimate contacts about the change, and you’ll probably have to keep both addresses for a few months. But once you can get rid of the old address, your spam count should plummet. You may want to read my article on changing your address.


Note: When you purchase something after clicking links in our articles, we may earn a small commission. Read our affiliate link policy for more details. 
Related: 
Cloud ComputingSecurity 







Freelance journalist (and sometimes humorist) Lincoln Spector has been writing about tech longer than he would care to admit. A passionate cinephile, he also writes the Bayflicks.net movie blog.

















									How to change your email address without losing your friends								



									Why you should use two-step verification even if it’s a hassle								



									How to tell if your Android phone has spyware


Global Nav Open MenuGlobal Nav Close MenuAppleShopping Bag+Search SupportCancelAppleStoreMaciPadiPhoneWatchAirPodsTV & HomeOnly on AppleAccessoriesSupportShopping Bag+












Learn how iCloud filters out unwanted bulk email messages, also known as junk mail or spam, and how to delete and minimize junk mail.






iCloud uses trend analysis, dynamic lists, and other technology to automatically detect and block junk mail before it reaches your inbox. While there isn’t a way to completely stop junk mail from reaching your inbox, these tips can help reduce the amount of junk mail you receive.




Delete any messages that look like junk mail before you open them. Learn how to delete emails on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch and how to delete emails on your Mac. You can also manage junk mail on iCloud.com.
When you open an email that looks like junk mail, it can alert spammers that their message was received and opened from an active email account. 




Spammers use the email image-loading feature to determine whether your email account is active. Here's how to keep images from loading automatically:

On your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, go to Settings > Mail, then turn off Load Remote Images. 
In Mail on your Mac, choose Mail > Preferences. In the Viewing tab, turn off "Load remote content in messages."
In iCloud Mail, click the gear icon  in the sidebar, then choose Preferences. Click General, then turn off "Load remote content in messages." Then click Done.






You can use an iCloud email alias to prevent junk mail from being sent to your primary iCloud email address. For example, you can use your primary iCloud email address for emailing friends and family, but use an email alias for online registrations, purchasing products, and joining mailing lists. This makes it easier for you to monitor the sources of unwanted messages. 
Learn how to create and use an email alias on iCloud.com. 




To make sure future messages from the same sender are marked as junk, you can report messages as junk in the Mail app. 

On your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, swipe left on the message, tap More, then tap Move to Junk. 
On your Mac, select the message and click the Junk button in the Mail toolbar. Or you can drag the message to the Junk folder in the sidebar.
On iCloud.com, select the message, then click the Flag button and choose Move to Junk. Or you can drag the message to the Junk folder in the sidebar.





Filtering out junk mail can block a legitimate email from reaching your inbox.
If you feel that a legitimate email message was accidentally filtered, you can mark it as not junk so that any future messages from the same sender go to your inbox:

On your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch, open the message in the Junk folder, tap the Move to Folder button  at the bottom of the screen, then tap Inbox to move the message.
On your Mac, select the message in the Junk folder and click the Junk button in the Mail toolbar. Or just drag the message to the Inbox in the sidebar.
On iCloud.com, click the Junk folder in the sidebar. Select the message, then click Not Junk at the top of the message window. Or just drag the message to the Inbox in the sidebar.
For other mail clients, move the message from the Junk folder to the inbox.

If you notice that multiple email messages are being delayed, bounced, or not delivered, contact iCloud Support. Email messages in the Junk folder are automatically deleted after 30 days.




Published Date: July 23, 2021













Helpful?

















Character limit:
250



Please don’t include any personal information in your comment.

Maximum character limit is 250.






        Thanks for your feedback.
    

















                        Ask other users about this article
                    




Ask other users about this article






                    See all questions on this article
                    





















Apple







Support




Identify and filter junk mail in iCloud





   United States   Copyright © 2022 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.  Privacy Policy Terms of Use Sales and Refunds Site Map


Accessibility Resource Center Skip to main content        Personal Business       						Stores					    Español                    Shop       					Shop				   Shop all									  										Shop all									    Deals									 Deals									  										Deals									   Shop all deals												 												Shop all deals											   Free phones												 												Free phones											    My offers												 												 My offers											   Smartphones												 												Smartphones											   Fios Home Internet												 												Fios Home Internet											   5G Home Internet												 												5G Home Internet											   Mobile + Home												 												Mobile + Home											   Bring your own device												 												Bring your own device											   Accessories												 												Accessories											      Devices									 Devices									  										Devices									   Smartphones												 												Smartphones											   5G phones												 												5G phones											   Certified pre-owned phones												 												Certified pre-owned phones											   Featured smartphones												 Featured smartphones												 												Featured smartphones											   Apple iPhone 13 Pro													   Apple iPhone SE (3rd Gen)													   Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra													   Google Pixel 6 Pro													     Bring your own device												 												Bring your own device											   Other phones												 												Other phones											   Trade in your device												 												Trade in your device											   Tablets & laptops												 												Tablets & laptops											   Watches												 												Watches											   Certified pre-owned watches												 												Certified pre-owned watches											   Jetpacks & hotspots												 												Jetpacks & hotspots											      Accessories									 Accessories									  										Accessories									   Shop all accessories												 												Shop all accessories											   Phone accessories												 Phone accessories												 												Phone accessories											   Shop all phone accessories													   Cases													   Case bundles													   Screen protectors													   MagSafe													     Tablet accessories												 Tablet accessories												 												Tablet accessories											   Shop all tablet accessories													   Cases													   Screen protectors													   Stylus pens													   Keyboards													     Watch accessories												 Watch accessories												 												Watch accessories											   Shop all watch accessories													   Smart watches													   Bands													   Screen protectors													   Chargers													     Charging												 												Charging											   Audio												 												Audio											   Gaming												 												Gaming											   Entertainment												 												Entertainment											   Home												 												Home											   Health												 												Health											   Deals												 												Deals											      Plans									 Plans									  										Plans									   Shop all plans												 												Shop all plans											   Unlimited												 												Unlimited											   International services												 												International services											   Connected devices												 												Connected devices											   Those who serve												 Those who serve												 												Those who serve											   Those who serve overview													   Teacher plans													   Nurses plans													   First responders													   Military plans													     Student plans												 												Student plans											   Other plans												 Other plans												 												Other plans											   Connected car plans													   Employee discounts													     Bring your own device												 												Bring your own device											      Home									 Home									  										Home									   Shop all home solutions												 												Shop all home solutions											   Fios Home Internet												 												Fios Home Internet											   5G Home Internet												 												5G Home Internet											   LTE Home Internet												 												LTE Home Internet											    Fios TV												 												 Fios TV											   Moving												 												Moving											   Accessories												 Accessories												 												Accessories											   Accessories overview													   Shop all accessories													   Cables & connectors													   Networking & Wi-Fi													   TV accessories													   Phone equipment													        Prepaid									 Prepaid									  										Prepaid									   Prepaid overview												 												Prepaid overview											   Plans												 Plans												 												Plans											   Phone plans													   Data plans													   International plans													     Devices												 Devices												 												Devices											   Smartphones													   Bring your own device													   Basic phones													   Tablets													   Mobile hotspots & routers													     Deals												 												Deals											      Entertainment									 Entertainment									  										Entertainment									   Shop all entertainment												 												Shop all entertainment											   Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+												 												Disney+, Hulu, ESPN+											   discovery+												 												discovery+											   Apple Arcade												 												Apple Arcade											   Google Play Pass												 												Google Play Pass											   Apple Music												 												Apple Music											   Gaming												 												Gaming											   YouTube TV												 												YouTube TV											      Apps & add-ons									 Apps & add-ons									  										Apps & add-ons									   Apps & add-ons overview												 												Apps & add-ons overview											   Protection & security												 												Protection & security											   Safety												 												Safety											   Mobile												 												Mobile											   Financial services												 												Financial services											      Business									  										Business									             Why Verizon       					Why Verizon				   Why Verizon overview									  										Why Verizon overview									    Network									 Network									  										Network									   5G overview												 												5G overview											   Coverage map												 												Coverage map											    5G Labs												 												 5G Labs											   Network awards												 												Network awards											   Fios												 												Fios											   Global coverage												 												Global coverage											      Get more									 Get more									  										Get more									   Devices & plans												 												Devices & plans											   Mobile + Home												 												Mobile + Home											   Entertainment												 												Entertainment											   Verizon Up												 												Verizon Up											   Verizon Visa® Card												 												Verizon Visa® Card											   Device protection												 												Device protection											   Verizon Cloud												 												Verizon Cloud											   Health discounts												 												Health discounts											      Social impact									 Social impact									  										Social impact									   Responsibility												 												Responsibility											   Privacy												 												Privacy											               Support       					Support				   Support overview									  										Support overview									    Mobile									 Mobile									  										Mobile									   Mobile support overview												 												Mobile support overview											   Billing & payments												 												Billing & payments											   Account management												 												Account management											   Device support & setup												 												Device support & setup											   Services & apps												 												Services & apps											   International trip planner												 												International trip planner											   Order status												 												Order status											   Download My Verizon App												 												Download My Verizon App											   Community Forums												 												Community Forums											      Home									 Home									  										Home									   Home support overview												 												Home support overview											   Billing & account management												 												Billing & account management											   Fios Internet												 												Fios Internet											   Fios TV												 												Fios TV											   Home Phone												 												Home Phone											   5G Home Internet												 												5G Home Internet											   LTE Home Internet												 												LTE Home Internet											   Speed Test												 												Speed Test											   Order status												 												Order status											   Download My Fios App												 												Download My Fios App											   Community Forums												 												Community Forums											      Business									 Business									  										Business									   Enterprise												 												Enterprise											   Fios Internet & Phone												 												Fios Internet & Phone											   Wireless												 												Wireless											      Contact us									  										Contact us									    Sign in									  										Sign in									                 Sign in       Sign in to My Account   Sign in to My Account   Register   Prepaid instant pay   Wishlist   Business sign in                            Quick links COVID-19 FAQs  Find open stores near you  Shop deals  Jetpacks & hotspots  Plans  Trade in  Upgrade  Fios        Quick links COVID-19 FAQs  Find open stores near you  Shop deals  Jetpacks & hotspots  Plans  Trade in  Upgrade  Fios      Featured devices Apple iPhone 13 Pro Apple iPhone 13 Apple iPhone SE (3rd Gen) Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra Samsung Galaxy S22 Google Pixel 6 Pro Motorola edge+ 5G UW           Choose your cart     Mobile solutions       Home solutions                        Sign in       Sign in to My Account   Sign in to My Account   Register   Prepaid instant pay   Wishlist   Business sign in                            Quick links COVID-19 FAQs  Find open stores near you  Shop deals  Jetpacks & hotspots  Plans  Trade in  Upgrade  Fios        Quick links COVID-19 FAQs  Find open stores near you  Shop deals  Jetpacks & hotspots  Plans  Trade in  Upgrade  Fios      Featured devices Apple iPhone 13 Pro Apple iPhone 13 Apple iPhone SE (3rd Gen) Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra Samsung Galaxy S22 Google Pixel 6 Pro Motorola edge+ 5G UW           Choose your cart     Mobile solutions       Home solutions                						Stores					    Español       Personal Business            Have a phone you love? Get up to $500 when you bring your phone.     $500 via Verizon e-gift card (sent w/in 8 wks). Activation of 4G LTE/5G phone on 5G Get More plan req’d. Device must remain active for 45 days. $500 charge back if service cancelled w/in 12 mos or eligibility req’s are no longer met. See vzw.com/bring-your-own-device for details.              
























Layer_4
Created with Sketch.

































 












		Due to inactivity, your session will end in approximately 2 minutes. Extend your session by clicking OK below.
					



 Due to inactivity, your session has expired. Please sign in again to continue.























Support








Services & Apps








My Verizon







Blocks FAQs

































✖


































This page explains how to block and unblock calls, messages, emails and domains on your mobile devices, and how to turn account services on or off.

Find out how to block calls and messages
See how to unblock calls and messages
Learn how to block a service
Unblock a service











Expand All
















From the My Verizon Blocks page, you can prevent devices on your account from being able to purchase and/or use certain types of calling, messaging and purchasing services. 
You can:

Block calls & messages: Prevent a device from getting unwanted calls and texts from a specific number.
Block emails & domains: Stop email addresses, domains and text names sent by the web.
Block services: Turn on or off options to prevent in-app purchases, set preferences for blocking incoming and outgoing picture and video messages, and control Video Calling use on your device.

Note: Only the Account Owner or Account Manager can block or unblock these services. Learn more about account access roles.

For more information on setting service blocks, watch our How to Add Blocks video.

























Some services let you make purchases that will be charged to your account. Others use the data allowance included with your plan. If you want to prevent someone on your account from using these services, you can choose to block them to help avoid unexpected purchases or overage charges on your bill.

Worried about data overages? Get the unlimited experience that fits your needs on the network you want. Learn more about Unlimited plans.

























You can block calls and messages from up to 5 specific phone numbers for free for up to 90 days in My Verizon. Account owners and account managers can choose to block numbers on all the lines on their account.

You can permanently block up to 20 specific phone numbers, including restricted, unavailable and private numbers, for a low monthly fee with Verizon Smart Family™. Learn how to block contacts with Verizon Smart Family, or sign up for Verizon Smart Family if you don't already have it.

To stop frequent spam and robocalls from unknown numbers, Call Filter is our most effective solution because you can automatically block unwanted spam calls from reaching you. Learn how to block contacts with Call Filter, or sign up if you haven't already

For more information about blocking numbers, visit our Block Numbers page.

























You can block messaging and services on the Blocks page in My Verizon if you're on a standard monthly plan.

Note: Only the Account Owner or Account Manager can block or unblock any of these services. Learn more about account access roles.

You can also watch our How to Add Blocks video for instructions.

























Block up to 15 email addresses, websites or text names (e.g., nickname@vtext.com) for free through the Blocks page in My Verizon. You can also block all text messages sent from the web or by email.

Note: Only the Account Owner or Account Manager can block or unblock any of these services. Learn more about account access roles.

























No. Changing your number will only stop spam calls temporarily. Instead you can:

Block calls and messages from up to 5 phone numbers for free for up to 90 days in My Verizon. Account owners and account managers can choose to block numbers on all lines.
Block unwanted spam calls with Call Filter.
Permanently block up to 20 phone numbers, including restricted, unavailable and private numbers with Verizon Smart Family.


























You can remove a calling or texting block on the Blocks page in My Verizon.

Note: Account Owners and Account Managers can choose to block and unblock a phone number on all lines of their account.

For additional information about blocking numbers, visit our Block Numbers page.

























You can unblock a service on the Blocks page in My Verizon.

Note: Only the Account Owner or Account Manager can block or unblock any of these services. Learn more about account access roles.

























Your service block goes into effect immediately.

























You can set up pre-defined content filters using Verizon Smart Family. Visit Verizon Smart Family FAQs for more information.

























Spam is an unsolicited commercial advertisement or any message that links to a virus or malicious software. Don't respond to the phone number or open any links in the message. Doing so may compromise your personal information and/or your mobile device.

If the message is still on your device, follow the steps below to report the unwanted message:

Be careful not to open any links and forward the suspected spam text message to short code 7726.
Once received, we'll send you a text message asking for the "From" address.
Reply to us with the "From" address of the unwanted message listed in the body of your text message.
A free text message with a "Thank you" notification will be sent to you to verify receipt.
The investigation will begin.

If you are using Verizon Messages (Message+), follow the steps below to report spam:

Touch and hold the message. Be careful not to click on any links.
When the option menu appears, select Report Spam.
The message will then be deleted from your device, and you'll be notified that the message was reported as spam.
The investigation will begin.

You've successfully reported an unwanted text message.

Notes:

You won't receive any further updates once you've received the final "Thank You" text message.
There are no charges for messages sent to or received from 7726.









































 Connect with us on Messenger 





 Visit Community 



 24/7 automated phone system: call *611 from your mobile 











          Shop   Devices Accessories Plans Home Internet & TV Entertainment Deals TracFone         Top Device Brands   Samsung Apple Motorola Google Amazon         Support   Support overview Return policy Contact us Sign in Download My Verizon App Lifeline         About Verizon   About us Careers News Responsibility Verizon Innovative Learning Consumer education Brochures           Most Popular   Apple iPhone 13 Pro Apple iPhone SE (3rd Gen) Samsung Galaxy S22 Ultra Apple AirPods Max Disney Apple Watch Series 7 Fios Verizon Visa® Card         Top Accessory Brands   Otterbox ZAGG Beats Mophie JBL Fitbit Gear 4          Important Consumer Information   Terms & Conditions Device Payment Terms & Conditions Report a security vulnerability  Mobile customer agreement Announcements Radio frequency emissions Recall Legal notices        Follow Verizon     facebook-official        twitter        you-tube        instagram             Follow Verizon Fios     facebook-official        twitter                    Site Map Privacy policy Accessibility Open internet Terms & conditions Advertise with us Do Not Sell My Personal Information About our ads   			© 2022 Verizon


Most of us can't last more than six minutes without a quick glance at our email or IMs. And unfortunately, these constant interruptions have a serious, negative impact on both our productivity and mental acuity.There's a better way to deal with email.Automate your inboxThe simplest solution is to close your email app so you don't get distracted by incoming mail notifications. But most of us just aren't willing—or able—to do that.There is another solution: Get fewer emails. Fewer emails means fewer notifications, and fewer notifications means fewer distractions throughout the day. And while you might not be able to ask your boss to stop emailing you, you can use the following eight tips to prevent spam, promotional emails, and other messages you don't need from distracting you while you work.This article is broken down into two sections: ways to stop spam emails and ways to stop promotional emails. Here's why: You might feel (like I do) that any email you didn't specifically request is spam, but that's not technically true.Spam refers specifically to unsolicited bulk email (UBE). Unsolicited is the key word there. For example:You provide your email address to a company in order to download a piece of content. The company then starts emailing you updates about new blog posts. While the emails about new blog posts may be unwanted, they're not spam. Why? You technically solicited them by giving the company your email address.The original company sells your email address to another company. Now, the second company starts sending you emails. That's spam. Why? The emails from the second company are both unwanted and unsolicited because you never gave your email address to that company.Because spam and promotional emails are two separate things, preventing and filtering out these two types of emails requires different tactics. Here's how to do it.4 Ways to Keep Spam from Filling Your Inbox4 Ways to Keep Promotional Emails from Filling Your InboxAutomate Your Email to Minimize Distractions Even MoreMy mom called me a few years ago to tell me that she got an email saying a distant relative of hers died overseas and left her a huge inheritance. "Do you think that's true?" she asked.At least she was skeptical enough to call and ask.These days, I don't get many calls from Mom like that. Email providers have built-in spam filters that automatically move most spam emails to a separate folder, cluing the less suspicious of us in on the fact that an unsolicited email just might be a scam.Still, spammers and scammers work around the clock to find new ways to work around spam filters and get emails into your inbox. But there are ways to prevent these emails, protecting yourself (or your kids, parents, and grandparents) from spam, scam, and phishing emails.When an unsolicited email makes an appearance in your inbox, never just delete it. Always mark it as spam. This is how the automatic spam filters learn to identify spam and filter it out.Here's how to mark an email as spam in Gmail, Outlook, and Mail for Mac:In Gmail, check the box next to a spam email, then click the "Report spam" button.In Outlook, right-click on the spam email in your inbox and select "Mark as junk."In Mail for Mac, right-click on the spam email and click "Move to Junk."This tells your provider which emails you don't want to receive, and—depending on your provider—may even help it learn which email addresses and domains should be considered spam for everyone.If you find that a lot of spam is slipping through your email provider's spam filter, use a third-party spam filter to give yourself another layer of protection. Some popular options include MailWasher (free, all operating systems), Spam Bully ($29.95/year, Windows operating systems), and SpamSieve (from $24, Mac operating systems).It's possible for spammers and scammers to use tools that scrape the web to compile lists of email addresses. This means that if your email addresses is exposed anywhere on the internet, spammers may grab it, use it to spam you, or sell it to other companies.To avoid this, don't publish your email address anywhere online. Follow these tips:If you have a business website and need a way for prospective customers to reach out to you via email, use a tool like Google Forms (free), JotForm (free plans available), or Contact Form 7 (free) to create a contact form for your website that lets visitors email you without exposing your email address.Make sure your email address is set to private on all of the social media sites you use. Or—if you want people in your network to be able to see your email address—make sure you only connect with people you know and trust.If you have to use your personal contact information when buying a domain name for a website you're creating, always opt in for the domain privacy feature—even if it costs extra. This keeps your private contact information from appearing in the public WHOIS database.If you want to run a classified ad and have people get in touch with you via email, use a site like Craigslist that provides a temporary email address for communicating.If for some reason you absolutely have to publish your email address online, at least write it in a nontraditional format (e.g., name [at] domain [dot] com). Humans can still figure out what your email address is this way, but it's more difficult for scrapers, spiders, and crawlers.Another way that spammers collect email addresses is by sending emails that contain a tracking pixel—typically a 1x1px image—that tracks whether or not an email was opened. If you open a spam email that contains a tracking pixel, the spammer gets a notification that the email was opened and now knows your email address is both active and monitored. So even if you realize after the fact that it's spam and don't click any links within the email, it's too late.The best way to avoid having your email address captured in this way is simply to avoid opening emails from senders you don't recognize.However, that's not always practical—an email from an unknown sender could be a current customer, potential customer, job offer, or other unexpected but important message. If you need to open emails from senders you don't recognize, there are ways to avoid getting your email addresses captured by senders using tracking pixels:If you use Gmail, try Ugly Email (free) and/or PixelBlock (free). Ugly Email is a Gmail extension that displays an eye icon next to any email that includes a tracking pixel. PixelBlock blocks tracking pixels, preventing notifications from being sent back to senders when you open a tracked email.If you use Outlook 365, 2016, 2013, 2010, or 2007, images are blocked by default. Never ask Outlook to display images from senders you don't recognize, and you should be safe from most tracking pixels.If you use Outlook.com, images display by default, and there's no way currently to disable it. If you're concerned about tracking pixels, it might be worth upgrading to Office 365.If you use Mail for Mac, images display by default, but you can turn that feature off. With Mail for Mac open, click Mail and select Preferences. Then, click the Viewing tab, and uncheck the box that says "Load remote content in messages."While these tips make a big difference, they're not foolproof. Experts have discovered 70 different ways tracking pixels can be sent—as links, fonts, images, and text colors. In the end, the best defense against tracking pixels is to send suspicious emails to the trash without opening them.Clicking on links in spam emails is another way to indicate that your email address is active and monitored. If an email seems suspicious, don't click on any links in it—not even the unsubscribe link. Even if the email appears to be from a trusted source like your bank or LinkedIn, open your browser and go to the site directly instead of following the link in the email. This protects you not only from tracking—but also from phishing attempts.Our final tip is pretty simple: be careful who you give your email address to. Most companies won't abuse the information. But some will.For example, last year I gave my email address to a company in order to get a notification when its product went on sale. I never received the requested notification, but I've received dozens of spam emails from other companies since then, each selling similar products. The original company obviously just took my email address and sold it to several other companies.If you only give your email address to well-known companies and businesses that you trust, it's much less likely that your email address will get sold to spammers.But even if you do know and trust a company, it's good to read through their privacy policies before providing your contact information. Some include clauses that give them permission to share your contact information with "partner companies":It's a doozy to read through the privacy policies of every site to which you provide your email address, but it's an important part of preventing spam.Pro Tip: If you just want to do a quick skim of a company's privacy policy, use Control + F (Windows) or Command + F (Mac) to open the find function and look for potentially problematic words like "partners," "partner companies," or "affiliates."If you must provide your email address to a company but don't have time to read through all of its policies, check out the tips in the next section for a few more options to consider.As a writer—and particularly someone who writes frequently about web apps—I have to test a lot of tools and download a lot of gated content. I provide an email address for something almost every day, and when I'm testing 40+ apps for a roundup, that number is much higher.Every time I investigate new apps, I find some that I want to keep. But I never want to keep all of the tools I try, and I certainly don't need to receive ongoing promotional emails from each company. And though I get fewer promotional emails since GDPR rules were put into place, it's still time-consuming to unsubscribe from dozens of marketing email lists each week.As a result, I've found several alternatives to providing my primary email address to companies when I know my interaction with them will only be temporary.If you're trying to cut down on the number of incoming emails but still want tips from Zapier in your inbox, we have you covered. Zapier lets you choose which emails you get—if you sign up for blog updates, you'll only get blog updates. If you have an account, go to your notifications settings to select which emails you want to receive.Create a free, secondary Gmail, Yahoo, or Outlook.com email address, and enter that email address when testing tools, downloading coupons, accessing gated content—any time you're asked to provide an email but aren't given an option to opt-out of marketing communications.This is my go-to method of avoiding an overload of promotional emails in my primary account. And it's important because—as you can see in the image above—my junk email account gets dozens of promotional emails every day. There are 768 new emails in my inbox right now, and I emptied it just a few weeks ago.If you decide later to keep a tool you were testing—or if you decide you want to receive emails from a company—just change your email address in their system to your primary email.It's not appropriate to mark promotional emails as spam to block them. Though you may not want the emails, you did technically solicit them by providing your email address, so they don't fit the definition of spam. It's easy enough to unsubscribe from most promotional emails to stop receiving them, and that's the more appropriate action to take.However, if you find yourself on a list that you just can't seem to get off of—or you're getting promotional emails you want to read, but not right now—use rules or filters to send email from that company to either a read-later folder or straight to the trash. Here's how:Gmail FiltersIn Gmail, open the email you no longer want to receive, click either the down arrow (Gmail 2012) or three vertical dots (Gmail 2018) at the top-right of the email, and select "Filter messages like this."Gmail will automatically populate the form with the most appropriate filtering criteria, so all you need to do in the window that opens is click the "Create filter with this search" (Gmail 2012) or "Create filter" (Gmail 2018) link.Finally, choose what you want to do with the emails. If you want to archive them, click the "Skip the Inbox (Archive it)" checkbox. If you want to delete them, click the "Delete it" checkbox. Then, click the "Create filter" button to apply the changes.Related: There are lots of ways to use filters to manage your inbox better. Check out our piece on organizing your inbox with Gmail filters to learn more.Outlook RulesRight-click an email in your inbox, and select "Create Rule."In the Rules pane that opens, add or remove any criteria for the rule (usually, filtering by sender is sufficient), and select what should happen when the rule executes. Click the dropdown under "Do all of the following," then hover over "Move, copy, or delete."To archive the email, select "Move the message to folder" and choose the folder you want to send it to. To delete all emails matching your criteria, select "Delete the message." Finally, click the "OK" button at the top of the panel to save your rule.Mail for Mac RulesWith an email you want to auto-archive/delete selected, click Mail and select Preferences from the dropdown.Next, click the "Rules" tab, then click the "Add Rule" button. Give your rule a descriptive name.Mail automatically populates the details you need to filter emails from that address in the "If" criteria, so you just need to select what to do with future messages from that email address. Select "Move Message" in the first dropdown, then select either an archive folder to archive the messages or the trash folder if you want to automatically delete the emails. Save your rule.If you don't want to manage a second email address or deal with setting up filters, there's another option: Use a temporary email service.Temporary email services provide you with an email address and either an inbox that expires after a set amount of time or emails that are automatically deleted after a set amount of time. During that time, you can receive and act on any email sent to that address.So when should you use a secondary email account or filters/rules versus a temporary email account? The first two options are great for emails from companies you might want to hear from in the future. Temporary email services, on the other hand, are for companies you know you don't want to hear from in the future.Here are a few temporary email services to consider:10 Minute Mail – 10 Minute Mail (free) gives you a temporary email address as soon as you land on the site. The address is only active for 10 minutes, but you can click the refresh button at any time to reset the timer back to 10 minutes. Emails you receive appear directly beneath your temporary email address. The big advantage of 10 Minute Mail is that each email address is private; no one else can access email sent to that address.Mailinator – Unlike 10 Minute Mail, email addresses on Mailinator (free) don't expire—you can access any email address you can think of on the @mailinator domain at any time just by typing it in. However, Mailinator email addresses are public. That means anyone can access any message sent to your temporary email address, though all emails are automatically deleted after a few hours.Nada – Nada (free) provides users with a permanent junk email address and private inbox, so it's a decent alternative to creating a junk email address. All emails sent to your account are deleted after seven days, and only you have access to your inbox. You can also create multiple inboxes on Nada if you need multiple temporary accounts.Guerrilla Mail – If for some reason you need to send email from a temporary email address, use Guerrilla Mail (Free). It allows you to receive emails at a temporary email address—each email is automatically deleted after an hour—and send emails from that address as well. However, sent emails aren't necessarily private; they include your IP address in the subject line to discourage people from using the service to send illegal emails.Chrome users have one final option for managing promotional emails: the Burner Emails extension (free).Burner Emails lets you create a custom, unique email address each time you need to provide your email address to a company. Each generated email address forwards the message you receive to your personal email account.If at any time you want to stop receiving email sent to that address, just turn off the email address in the extension. This makes it a great option for protecting your personal email address from being sold, and it simplifies "unsubscribing" from promotional emails.Reducing the amount of spam and promotional emails you receive is a great first step in minimizing the number of times you're distracted during the day, but if you're expected to be available by email, phone, and instant message, it may not be enough.Zapier lets you consolidate all of the ways people message you into a central source. Just create a Zap—an automated workflow—for each of your messaging platforms pointing to whichever system you prefer.If you receive emails but prefer to manage everything in team chat, use the following Zaps:Send new Gmail emails as Slack channel messagesTry itGmail, SlackGmail + SlackSend new inbound emails in Slack channel messagesTry itEmail by Zapier, SlackEmail by Zapier + SlackIf you receive instant messages and emails but prefer to manage them by text, use one of the following Zaps:Get SMS messages for new Gmail messages [Business Gmail Accounts Only]Try itGmail, SMS by ZapierGmail + SMS by ZapierSend SMS messages when new Slack mentions are createdTry itSlack, SMS by ZapierSlack + SMS by ZapierGet SMS alerts for new email messagesTry itEmail by Zapier, SMS by ZapierEmail by Zapier + SMS by ZapierDon't see the workflow you're looking for? Create your own in our Zap editor.Spam might seem like nothing more than a simple nuisance. But at best it's a distraction, and at worst it's a danger.By taking these steps to reduce the number of spam and promotional emails you receive, you'll not only protect yourself from the scammers of the world, but you'll also protect your own valuable time and productivity.Related reading:How to Avoid the 9 Things That Hurt Productivity Most14 Tools to Help You Avoid Distractions and Stay Focused at WorkOrganize Your Inbox with These 7 Gmail Filters


NEWKasperskySecurity CloudYour gateway to all our best protection. Access our best apps, features and technologies under just one account. Get antivirus, anti-ransomware, privacy tools, data leak detection, home Wi-Fi monitoring and more.Learn moreFree trial KasperskyTotal SecurityPremium security & antivirus suite for you & your kids – on PC, Mac & mobileLearn moreFree, 30-day trialKasperskyInternet SecurityAdvanced security & antivirus suite for your privacy & money – on PC, Mac & mobileLearn moreFree, 30-day trialKasperskyInternet Securityfor MacAdvanced security against identity thieves and fraudstersLearn moreFree, 30-day trialKasperskyInternet Security for AndroidAdvanced security – for your privacy & sensitive data on your phone or tabletLearn moreGet it on Google PlayKasperskyAnti-VirusEssential antivirus for Windows – blocks viruses & cryptocurrency-mining malwareLearn moreFree, 30-day trialFree ToolsKaspersky Security Cloud – FreenewKaspersky Password ManagerKaspersky VPN Secure ConnectionnewKaspersky Safe KidsKaspersky QR ScannerKaspersky Battery LifeView More


Download


By Trumani







Details
Reviews

Installation


Support

Development





Antispam.
Quick Links: Upgrade | Support | Funding
Stop spam emails, spam comments, spam registration, and spam bots and spammers in general. Run diagnostic tests, view activity, and much more with this well-maintained, mature plugin.
Stop Spammers adds security that should kill off many of your spam worries straight out-of-the-box. Because every website is different (especially if you have integrated a payment gateway), we offer dozens of features you can leverage to meet your website’s specific needs. Our 50+ configuration options make personalization easy.
Get even more options with Stop Spammers Premium.
Features
Extremely granular control, so that any variety of website can create a special custom cocktail just for their particular spam issues:

Block suspicious behavior
Block spam words, disposable emails, URL shortener links, TLDs and more
Connect third-party spam defense services
Block countries
Block/allow IPs, emails, and usernames manually
Hide admin notices permanently
Allow users to request access and send email when allow list request is approved
Members-only mode
Core forms CAPTCHA
So much more…
Server-level firewall protection (Premium Only)
Themed registration/login pages and menu links (Premium Only)
Brute force login protection (Premium Only)
Notification control (Premium Only)
Import/export settings (Premium Only)
Export log to Excel (Premium Only)
Restore default settings (Premium Only)
Contact Form 7 protection (Premium Only)
Built-in contact form (Premium Only)

We sincerely thank everyone who has contributed to the project through donations, feedback, and bug reporting. Every little bit goes a long way.





The most powerful spam prevention for WordPress: 50+ spam-blocking settings, dianostic testing, log reports, and much more.
Go to Plugins > Add New from your WP admin menu, search for Stop Spammers, install, and activate.
OR

Download the plugin and unzip it.
Upload the plugin folder to your wp-content/plugins folder.
Activate the plugin from the plugins page in the admin.








See: Breaking Down Stop Spammers.





See: https://github.com/trumani/stop-spammers/issues/5.





Yes. But, you may need to restore visitor IPs: https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/sections/200805497-Restoring-Visitor-IPs.





Yes. But, in some configurations, you may need to go to Stop Spammers > Protection Options > Toggle on the option for “Only Use the Plugin for Standard WordPress Forms” > Save if you’re running into any issues.





Yes. Stop Spammers can even check Akismet for an extra layer of protection.





Yes and no. You can use all Jetpack features except for Jetpack Protect, as it conflicts with Stop Spammers.





Yes. The two can compliment each other. However, if you have only a small amount of hosting resources (mainly memory) or aren’t even allowing registration on your website, using both might be overkill.





Toggle off the “Check Credentials on All Login Attempts” option and try again.





Yes. See: https://law.stackexchange.com/questions/28603/how-to-satisfy-gdprs-consent-requirement-for-ip-logging. Stop Spammers does not collect any data for any other purpose (like marketing or tracking). It is purely for legitimate security purposes only. Additionally, if any of your users ever requested it, all data can be deleted.







 


 


lordsnake
January 6, 2022


I have this installed on several sites and have had various issues with it.

it seems to block a lot of legit form submissions.
When it does block a form submission, I often get the message saying it was blocked but still get the form submission as well.

No way to actually accept the form submission that was blocked... just to add the person's IP address to an allow list or block them.
This is only useful for blocking spammers, but completely pointless for dealing with false positive as if you didn't get the submission, that person isn't going to come back and re-submit the form.




 


 


Torah
July 10, 2021


It comes with predefined settings for general uses. And customizable options are also great if advanced users want to prevent spam further.




 


 


w-sky
June 22, 2021


First, thank you very much! It works great in blocking all spam comments on my website. The developers provide very good support for problems or questions. By fine-tuning the number of false positives could be reduced to almost zero.




 


 


primated
May 27, 2021


I was getting so many Spam Registrations on a membership site that uses MemberMouse.
I'd have to go in everyday and delete so many fake registrations. ReCaptcha didn't stop it, so many other plugins did nothing. This plugin, from the get-go stopped it dead in it's tracks. Thank You.




 


 


jessieldevine
April 14, 2021


I'm not sure why this didn't work for me. It locked me out of my website, which was super frustrating and I had to do a backend workaround to regain access that I think would be too advanced for most average users. Meanwhile, I was still receiving emails from wordpress about comments and registrations... that were all spam.

Bryan (author of the plugin) was very awesome and helped me quickly, which is the reason I'm not giving it a 1-star. But as far as what the plugin does, not a fan.




 


 


laurel1234
March 8, 2021


This is the only plugin that managed to block by country upon install.  LOVE THIS PLUGIN! Noticed an immediate difference after setup as all the spam suddenly disappeared.  Does exactly what it says and frankly, exceeded my expectations.




			Read all 229 reviews		


“Stop Spammers Security | Block Spam Users, Comments, Forms” is open source software. The following people have contributed to this plugin.Contributors


 
					Block Spam				


 
					Trumani				


 
					Bryan Hadaway				


 
					Hitesh Chandwani				


 
					keith graham				


Translate “Stop Spammers Security | Block Spam Users, Comments, Forms” into your language.Browse the code, check out the SVN repository, or subscribe to the development log by RSS.


2022.3

[Fix] JavaScript error

2022.2

[Update] Allowing users with older versions of PHP to upgrade

2022.1

[New] Fundraising campaign

2022

[New] HiveMindᴮᴱᵀᴬ — A community IP block list (limited)
[Fix] CAPTCHAs

2021.20

[Fix] PHP 8 error

2021.19

[New] Enable CAPTCHA on WordPress core forms

2021.18

[Enhanced] Security

2021.17

[New] hCaptcha integration

2021.16

[New] Allow Square

2021.15

[Fix] Checking for periods in emails
[Fix] jQuery error

2021.14

[Fix] Network toggle fix
[Fix] Design issue with icons on some browsers

2021.13

[Update] Cloudflare IPs
[Fix] SFS report

2021.12

[Fix] Minor fixes

2021.11

[Fix] Settings fix

2021.10

[Enhanced] Security

2021.9

[Enhanced] Security

2021.8

[Update] UI improvements
[Enhanced] Notification Control feature
[Fix] Math question

2021.7

[Update] PayPal IPs
[Enhanced] Cleanup

2021.6

[New] Notification Control feature
[New] Sortable registered date column on Users page
[Enhanced] Security
[Enhanced] Code audit and cleanup

2021.5

[Fix] Email fix

2021.4

[Fix] SFS report fix

2021.3

[Fix] Error fixes

2021.2.1

[Fix] Login issue

2021.2

[New] Strings are now translation-ready
[Update] UI improvements
[Update] Safety checks for WooCommerce
[Enhanced] When approving allow requests, the email address is now whitelisted
[Enhanced] Code audit and cleanup
[Fix] “Clear the Requests” toggles off other settings
[Fix] Too many periods feature

2021.1

[Update] Third-party service IP lists

2021

[New] Private mode feature
[Update] UI improvements
[Enhanced] Too many periods feature
[Enhanced] Emails are now off by default (to avoid potential issues with server reputation)
[Enhanced] Code audit and cleanup
[Fix] Shortened URL option only checks for exact matches now

2020.6.2

[Update] Minor UI improvements
[Fix] Duplicate email issue

2020.6.1

[Fix] PHP notice

2020.6

[New] Send email when allow list request is approved (community request)
[New] Approve or Block action in request email with link to Allow List page (community request)
[Update] Update Stop Spammers menu icon to ‘S’ logo
[Fix] Conditional fields hidden on page load when option is enabled
[Fix] Updates to multisite (community reported)
[Fix] Shortcode and HTML support on Spam Message (community reported)
[Fix] Wrong key used for the spam reason in the allow request email template sent to the web admin

2020.5.1

[Fix] Block if email has too many periods

2020.5

[New] Block URL shortening service links

2020.4.5

[New] Notice

2020.4.4

[Fix] PHP warnings

2020.4.3

[Enhanced] Code cleanup

2020.4.2

[Revert] Removed gettext

2020.4.1

[Fix] Hotfix

2020.4

[New] Force username-only login
[New] Force email-only login
[New] Disable custom passwords
[Enhanced] 2,500+ disposable email domains added to block list
[Update] Support notice

2020.3

[Update] Usability updates

2020.2

[Update] Plugin audit and cleanup

2020.1.1-2020.1.4

[Update] Various hotfixes

2020.1

[New] Check for Tor Exit Nodes
[New] Check for too many periods
[New] Check for too many hyphens
[New] Allow Stripe
[New] Allow Authorize.Net
[New] Allow Braintree
[New] Allow Recurly
[Update] Admin UI enhancements

2019.6

New owner







				Version: 2022.3 

				Last updated: 2 days ago 

				Active installations: 60,000+ 

					Tested up to: 6.0 
Tags: anti-spamblock spamsecurityspamspam blocker

Advanced View 

 See all

 



5 stars



193




4 stars



6




3 stars



8




2 stars



5




1 star



17




Log in to submit a review.




 
					Block Spam				


 
					Trumani				


 
					Bryan Hadaway				


 
					Hitesh Chandwani				


 
					keith graham				


 Issues resolved in last two months:





					5 out of 5				


View support forum


Would you like to support the advancement of this plugin?


					Donate to this plugin


A leader in web hosting since 1998

 Live Chat

Help
Login

FeaturesWordPressDomainsMarketing ServicesBlogAbout
24/7 Phone Support
FeaturesWordPressDomainsMarketing ServicesBlogAbout

Posted on Sep 19, 2017If you feel like you’re drowning in spam email everyday, you’re not alone. According to the site Spam Laws, spam accounts for 14.5 billion messages globally per day. That figure accounts for 45% of all emails, with some estimates hitting a staggering 73%. Companies are also under the burden of spam: Spam Laws reports that 52% of companies polled said minimizing spam is a top priority. It may be hard to believe, but we actually do have spam laws under the CAN-SPAM Act – and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is currently reviewing them. For each violation of the CAN-SPAM Act, a business or person can be fined up to $11,000, although it seems we don’t hear about it being enforced that often. However, Microsoft did sue spammers in 2004 for violating the law.The CAN-SPAM act went into effect in 2003 to help protect American consumers. There have been updates over the years, such as when the FTC differentiated between commercial and promotional emails, and transactional emails. But today we’re seeing an overlap between the two types of emails that the FTC hopes to clarify.But can you stop spam altogether? The chances are slim to none you’ll ever achieve a zero-spam inbox, especially as a business owner. But there are ways to drastically reduce the burden. Here are 10 tips to (almost completely) stop spam from infiltrating your business email. The first step to combating spam is to strengthen your email filters. Go into your email provider’s settings and look for junk or spam folder settings. In Outlook, go to ‘Home’, click on ‘Junk’ and then click on ‘Junk Email Options.’ From there, you can choose the filtering level of your inbox, from ‘Low’ to ‘Safe lists only’. The latter is the highest setting and will only allow mail from your Safe Senders List.It may be tempting to crank up your settings as high as they will go, but in reality, you could be blocking out your emails from clients or leads too. It’s best to find a happy medium where your filters are set high enough to eliminate some of the worst and most pervasive spam, but still allow customer inquiry emails to get through. Paying the nominal annual fee for website domain privacy can actually help reduce the spam in your business email. When you register a domain without the domain privacy option, anyone can use the WHOIS database to see your contact information, including your name and email. WHOIS supplies this information in part to keep accurate domain records, and has actually helped law enforcement find people who run websites for nefarious purposes.When you purchase domain privacy, your information is still there but it’s masked. No one can see it unless they send a request to your registrar to see your information. That request is forwarded on to you, and you can choose whether or not you want to respond to it. However, sometimes it’s actually a good idea to skip domain privacy when you’re a business owner. Customers sometimes associate domain privacy with suspicion. They tend to think business websites should be completely transparent. As you subscribe to coupon offers and information from other businesses or services, you can end up on so many email lists that it’s hard to remember how you ever landed on them. It’s also possible your email has been manually added to lists by less-than-credible email marketers.Unsubscribing from email marketing lists early and often can help reduce spam email. A free service like Unroll.me can quickly search your inbox and make recommendations on what you should unsubscribe from with just a few clicks. You can also combine all of your favorite subscriptions into a single Rollup email to get all of your updates at once and gain some control over your inbox.
Image: Unroll.me You can always use a separate junk email address to give to marketers and use in email sign-ups to funnel any marketing and promotional messages to one place. This can help reduce the spam in your own business email account. Just be careful not to use your throwaway address to do things like register a domain. If you forget your login information and get locked out of your account, you can end up losing control over your website.Make your junk email address something easy to use and remember. You can also go through the steps to increase your spam filters in this email account too. Spammers are trying to get you to respond to their offers, or worse, fall for a phishing scheme. Hackers sometimes send malicious emails that download malware and viruses onto your computer. From there, your files can be encrypted and you’ll lose control of them unless you pay a ransom. You’ve probably heard about these ‘ransomware’ attacks occurring around the world.However, even responding to spam that somewhat legitimate companies or marketers send is just an invitation for them to keep sending you more. Spammers can track to see if you opened and engaged with the email, and if you did, they’re likely to keep sending you follow-ups. If possible, don’t open spam at all. Just send it straight to your spam or junk mail and delete it forever. It’s easy to lose track of spam when our business emails are spiraling out of control. Some people are pretty good at staying organized and setting up folders to keep everything in its place. This can also help your email account to recognize junk and filter it into your spam folder as appropriate. SaneBox can also do this for you. You walk through a few steps to show SaneBox which emails are important and it will automatically sort that correspondence into the right folders. But it can also combine your important daily emails into one email digest called SaneLater that you can get to when you’re ready. 
Image: SaneBox Today’s business owners need to stay vigilant against hacking and ransomware that can enter directly through their email. MailRoute works to remove spam, as well as viruses and other threats by “washing” and routing emails. The service works as a middleman between the internet and your email server to get rid of spam before it lands in your inbox.When you sign up with any third-party service that promises to eliminate spam, check their track record and make sure they offer both inbound and outbound protection. They should also offer high availability so your email is never down when they’re undergoing maintenance or set up. Keeping your business email off of public forums and even your own website can help reduce some spam. Of course, you still want clients to find you and be able to contact you in the first place.One option is to rely on email forms where people contact you directly on your website instead of manually sending an email to you. However, savvy spammers can still usually find your email address without too much difficulty. But this technique can sometimes stop bots from scraping your website and copying and pasting your contact information. Keep spammers out of your inbox by blocking them from contacting you again. Although this isn’t a foolproof method for eliminating spam, it can help reduce the level of junk and noise in your inbox. If you’re using a service like Yahoo, go into your settings and select ‘Blocked Addresses’ from the lefthand side and simply enter the email address you want to keep out of your inbox. Some email providers will give you the option to block the sender right from your inbox.Keep in mind a devoted spammer can simply register a new address and contact you again. But most spammers automatically send out a high level of spam to a huge list of people. They’re likely to just keep collecting and working through their emails. It’s still worth keeping a blocked email list going to keep your inbox tidy. If your business is growing to the point that your inbox is out of control and you could use help with administrative tasks, it might make sense to hire a virtual assistant. Task them with duties ranging from setting appointments to writing blog posts visitors actually want to read. You can also have them clean up your inbox, sort spam and make sure everything is ready to go before you ever log in. You can hire a virtual assistant on an hourly basis from a service like Fancy Hands to keep your costs and overhead low.Spam is likely to always be an issue in your business email, but it can be kept to a minimum. It’s also a good lesson in running your own business with integrity. Make sure you’re only reaching out to people who signed up for your email list, and keeping the correspondence to a respectable minimum. What have you found to be a successful way to stop spam from infiltrating your business email? Let us know by leaving a comment below: Feature Image: Pixabay 

Previous PostIntroducing the New iPage Control Panel	

Next PostHow to Crush the Spam After…	
CommentsCOVID-19 Resources2Email Marketing1Other43Small Business Management70Small Business Marketing219Social Media59Tutorials2Web Hosting81Website Design123Website Management189WordPress3
March 2021February 2021January 2021November 2020October 2020September 2020August 2020June 2020May 2020April 2020March 2020January 2020© 2022 iPage. All rights reserved.Terms of ServicePrivacyAbout iPage


Email spam filters can be unpredictable. Sometimes they get it right, sometimes they don’t. A simple trick to prevent Jotform emails from landing in your spam folder is to add noreply@jotform.com to your Contacts. But sometimes that’s not enough, especially when your inbox is constantly flooded with new email alerts.

You can make sure you don’t miss important messages in Gmail by adding email filters. Email Filters will ensure specific emails land in your inbox based on a certain email address or keyword of your choice.

Log into your Gmail account and click the gear icon at the top right.Click the See all settings button.

Go to the Filters and Blocked Addresses tab.Click the Create a new filter link.

Set From to noreply@jotform.com.Click the Create filter button.

Select Never send it to Spam and Also apply filter to matching conversations.Click the Create filter button to complete the setup.

This filter should send all emails coming from noreply@jotform.com to your Inbox and never to your Spam folder. It may help to add noreply@formresponse.com in your filter too.
Now that you’ve created a filter, you can set it to automatically apply a specific label so you can view all your filtered emails together. Check out our blog post to learn how to label emails in Gmail.
Related article: https://support.google.com/mail/answer/6579


Xfinity
Don't worry, this sounds complicated but it's just a simple browser setting. You can usually find JavaScript options in your browser's Settings, Preferences or Internet Options menu.Here are the instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Xfinity© Comcast 2022


If your Inbox is getting cluttered with spam and junk mail, use these helpful tips to help get your Inbox back under control. While most spam should be caught by our filters, occasionally some can slip through. If that does happen it's important to mark the email as spam. It lets our system learn that messages from a specific sender are not good and helps us make Yahoo Mail even better at recognizing future spam emails.


Spam is irrelevant, inappropriate, or malicious email. Our filters try to keep spam out of your Inbox, but they don't catch everything. Flag an email as spam to help train the filter.
Tap an email to open it or select multiple emails.Tap the More icon Tap Mark as spam 



When you enter your email address on someone's website, you may unknowingly subscribe to their mailing list. You can often unsubscribe from their mailings within the email.
Tap an email to open it.Tap the More icon  (iOS) or  (Android).Tap Unsubscribe.
If there's no unsubscribe option, flag the message as spam or try the subscriptions tab.
From your inbox view, tap the More icon  (iOS) or  (Android).Tap Subscriptions.Under the mailing list you want to unsubscribe from, tap Unsubscribe.


E-commerce Automations: Time-Saving Techniques for E-commerce



        See how Mailchimp’s e-commerce automations can save you time and help you convert more first-time buyers into repeat customers.


Jan31 

by Svetlana Cheusheva | updated on May 1, 2022





 This article explains how to configure Outlook Junk Mail Filter to block as many junk emails as possible. You will also learn how to keep your filter up to date, how to move a good message from the Junk folder and ensure that no legitimate e-mails gets there.
	The fact is that as long as junk mails has at least a tiny degree of effectiveness, say 0.0001%, spam will continue to be sent in millions and billions of copies. The email protocol was invented by scientists and it could never occur to them that someone would be sending all those car insurance quotes, loans, mortgage rates, pills and diets to unknown people. That is why, unluckily for all of us, they did not devise any mechanism that would ensure 100% protection against unsolicited e-mail. As a result, it is impossible to completely stop the delivery of junk messages. However, you can considerably reduce the number of spam in your inbox by automatically dispatching most of unwanted emails into the junk folder and in this way turn a roaring junk steam into a tiny brook that one can comfortably live with.
	If you work in a corporate environment, then most likely you already have some anti-spam filter set up on your Exchange server that helps your company to opt out of junk mail. On your home computer or a laptop, you will have to configure the filter yourself and the aim of this article is to help you do this in the most efficient way to stop as much junk email as possible.

How Outlook Junk Mail filter works
How to tweak Junk Email Filter to effectively block spam
How to keep your Junk Mail Filter up to date
How to report spam to Microsoft
How to move an email from Junk E-mail folder
How to turn off automatic junk mail filtering


	Before you start setting up the Outlook Junk Mail filter, let me briefly explain, or maybe remind you, some basics of how filtering works. I am not going to waste your time digging deep in theory, just a few facts that you should keep in mind or check before you start configuring the filter settings.

The Junk Email Filter moves suspected spam to the Junk folder but it doesn't block junk emails from getting into your Outlook.
The following email account types are supported:

Two Exchange Server accounts types - accounts that deliver to an Outlook Data File (.pst) and accounts in Cached Exchange Mode (.ost)
POP3, IMAP, HTTP,
Outlook Connector for Outlook.com
Outlook Connector for IBM Lotus Domino


Junk Mail Filter is turned on by default in Outlook, the protection level is set to Low to catch only the most obvious spam emails.
In Outlook 2003, 2007 and 2010, the Junk Mail filter runs before Outlook rules. In practice, this means that your Outlook rules won't be applied to messages moved to the Junk folder.
Beginning with Outlook 2010, the Junk Email filter setting are applied to each e-mail account individually. If you have several accounts, the Junk Email options dialog shows the settings for the account whose folders you are currently viewing.
And finally, while the Outlook Junk Email Filter protects against much of the spam sent to you, no filter is smart enough to catch every unsolicited email, even if set to the high level. The filter does not pick out any particular sender or a message type, it uses advanced analysis of the message structure and other factors to determine the likelihood of spam.


	The Junk Email Filter checks your incoming email messages automatically, however you can adjust its settings to give the filter some hits about what should be considered spam.

Choose the spam protection level right for you
Prevent legitimate e-mails from getting into Junk folder
Why Blocked Senders list is not the best way to stop junk mail
Block unwanted mail in foreign languages

Note: This is just a quick reminder that each email account in Outlook 2010, 2013 and 2016 has its own Junk Mail settings. So, be sure to select a message in the right account before you open the Junk E-mail Options dialog.
	To tweak the Junk Email Filter settings in Outlook 2016, 2013 and 2010, go to the Home tab > Delete group > Junk > Junk E-mail Options…

	If you use Outlook 2007, click Actions > Junk E-mail > Junk E-mail Options.
	Clicking the Junk E-mail Options button opens the Junk E-mail Options dialog. The dialog consists of 4 tabs, each purposed to control a certain aspect of spam protection. The tabs' names are self-explanatory: Options, Safe Senders, Safe Recipients, Blocked Senders and International. So, let's have a quick look at each and highlight the most essential settings.

	You select the needed level of protection on the Options tab, and here you have 4 filtering options to choose from:

No Automatic Filtering. If you select this option, the automatic Junk Email Filter will be turned off. However, if you previously entered some addresses or domains to the Blocked Senders list, they will still be moved away to the Junk folder. See how to turn off the Junk Email Filter completely.
Low level. This is the most tolerant option that filters only the most obvious junk messages. Low level is recommended if you receive quite few unsolicited emails.
High level. Setting protection level to High is often considered the best practice to obtain the maximum protection. However, along with spam it may also misidentify legitimate messages and move them to Junk. So, if you opt for the High level, don't forget to periodically review your Junk mail folder.
Safe lists only. If this option is selected, only emails from people you have added to the Safe Senders and Safe Recipients lists will get into your Inbox. Personally, I cannot imagine a scenario when I would select this option, but if you want this maximum level of restrictions, you can choose it.

	Besides the four protection levels, the Options tab has three other options (the last two are active if you choose a protection level other than "No Automatic Filtering"):

Permanently delete suspected junk email instead of moving it to Junk folder
Disable links in phishing messages
Warm about suspicious domain names in e-mail addresses

 
	While the last two options seem to be very reasonable and safe precautions that cannot harm you in any way, I would rather not enable the first option to Permanently delete suspected junk email. The point is that even good messages may occasionally get to the Junk mail folder (especially if you opted for the High protection level) and if you choose to permanently delete suspected junk messages, then you won't have any chance to find and recover a message mistakenly treated as junk. So, you'd better leave this option unchecked and periodically look through the Junk e-mail folder.

	The next two tabs of the Junk E-mail Options dialogs let you add email addresses or domain names to the Safe Senders and Safe Recipients lists. E-mail messages from anyone on these two lists will never be considered spam regardless of their content.
Safe Senders List. If the junk mail filter mistakenly considers a legitimate message from a particular sender to be spam, you can add the sender (or the entire domain) to the Safe Senders List.
 Safe Recipients List. If your e-mail account is configured to receive mail only from trusted senders and you don't want to miss a single message sent to this email address, you can add such address (or domain) to your Safe Recipients list. If you are on some mailing / distribution lists, you can also add a distribution list name to your Safe Recipients. 
	To add someone to your safe list, simply click the Add button in the right-hand part of the window and type an e-mail address or domain name.

	Another way to add a contact to your Safe list is to right click a message, click Junk and choose one of the options: Never Block Sender's Domain, Never Block Sender or Never Block this Group or Mailing List.

	To have the trusted contacts added to the Safe Senders list automatically, you can check two additional options that reside at the bottom of the Safe Senders tab:

Also trust e-mail from my Contacts
Automatically add people I email to the Safe Senders List

 
	You can also import Safe Senders and Safe Recipients from a .txt file by clicking the Import from File… button located in the right-hand part of the dialog window.
Note: If you are connected to an Exchange Server, names and e-mail addresses in the Global Address List are automatically considered safe.

	The Blocked Senders list is the opposite of the two safe lists we've just discussed. All messages arrived from individual email addresses or domains on this list will be considered spam and automatically moved to the Junk email folder regardless of their content. At first sight, adding unwanted senders to the Blocked list seems to be the most obvious way to opt out of junk e-mail, but in truth it has very little effect and here's why:

Firstly, because spammers won't typically use the same email addresses twice and adding each address to the Block Senders list is a mere waste of time.
Secondly, if you have an Outlook Exchanged based account, the Blocked Senders list as well as two Safe lists is stored on the Exchange server that allows storing up to 1024 addresses in these lists combined. When your lists reach this limit, you will get the following error message: "An error occurred processing your Junk E-mail list. You are over the size limit allowed at the server."
And thirdly, when receiving email the first thing that Outlook does is check incoming messages against your junk filter lists. As you understand, the shorter your lists are the more quickly inbound email gets processed.

	"This is Okay, but what shall I do if I am being bombarded with thousands of junk emails?" you may ask. If all those spam messages come from a certain domain name, then of course, you shall add it to the Blocked Senders list. However, instead of right-clicking an email and choosing Junk > Block Sender from the pop-up menu as most people do, block the entire domain using the Junk E-mail Options dialog. At that, there is no need to enter sub-domains or use wild characters such as an asterisk (*). You can ban the entire domain by simply entering @some-spam-domain.com and stop all junk mail coming from that domain.
 
Note: Most often spammers send all those unsolicited emails from fake addresses, different from what you see in the From field. You can try to find the real address of the sender by looking in the Internet Headers of a message (open the message and go to the File tab > Info > Properties).
	If you do need to block a particularly annoying spammer, you can simply right-click the message and choose Junk > Block Sender from the context menu.


	If you want to stop receiving email messages in foreign languages that you don't know, switch to the last tab of the Junk E-mail Options dialog, International tab. This tab provides the following two options:
 Blocked Top-Level Domains List. This list lets you block email messages from specific countries or regions. For example, if you select CN (China) or IN (India), then you will stop receiving any messages if a sender's address that ends with .cn or .in.
 
	Though, nowadays when nearly everyone has gmail or outlook.com accounts, this option will hardly help you get rid of many junk emails. And this brings us to the second option that looks much more promising.
 Blocked Encodings List. This list enables you to eliminate all unwanted e-mail messages formatted in a specific language encoding, i.e. displayed in a language that you don't understand and cannot read anyway.

Note: Messages that have unknown or unspecified encodings will be filtered by the Junk E-mail Filter in the usual way.

	Most spam is obvious and easily recognizable. However there are some very sophisticated spammers who diligently research Microsoft's junk mail filter technology, elicit the factors that cause an email to be treated as junk and continuously improve their spam strategies. On the other hand, Microsoft takes good effort to fight the latest spamming techniques and adjusts the junk filter accordingly in order to reduce junk email in your inbox. So, it definitely stands to reason to always have the most recent version of the junk mail filter in your Outlook.
	The easiest way is to turn automatic Windows updates on. You can verify if this option is enabled on your computer by going to the Control Panel > Windows Update > Change settings. Under Important updates, choose the options right for you.

	As you can see in the screenshot above, my preference is to "Check for updates but let me choose whether to download and install them". Under Recommended updates, you can select "Give me recommended updates the same way I receive important updates". Note that you need to have the admin rights to be able to change the updates options.
	As an alternative way, you can always download the latest version of the Junk E-mail Filter for Outlook 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013 and 2016 from Microsoft's web-site.

	If even the latest version of the junk mail filter does not catch all spam e-mails that get into your inbox, then you can report such messages to Microsoft and in this way help them improve the effectiveness of their junk e-mail filtering technologies.
	You can do this using the Junk E-mail Reporting Add-in for Outlook, the download links for Outlook 2003, 2007, 2010, 2013, and 2016 32-bit and 64-bit are available here. Go through the installation process by simply clicking Next, Next, Finish and after restarting your Outlook you will find a new "Report Junk" option added to your Junk filter.
	Now you can report unsolicited messages directly to Microsoft in the following ways:

Select a junk message in the list of emails and click Report Junk on the Outlook ribbon (Home > Junk > Report Junk)

	If you have already opened a junk e-mail, proceed in the same way.
Right click a spam email and select Junk > Report Junk from the context menu.



	As already mentioned in the beginning of this article, even good legitimate e-mail may occasionally be treated as spam and moved to the Junk E-mail folder. No one is perfect in this world, nor is the junk filter : ) That is why, remember to check your Junk folder once in a while. How often you do this is up to you. If you set your filter to the High level to stop as many junk messages as possible, it's a good idea to check often. I check it at the end of my work day to make sure I've covered everything.
	If you spot a legitimate message among junk emails, you can right click it and choose Junk > Not Junk from the context menu.

	Clicking Not Junk will move the message to your Inbox and provides you the option to Always trust e-mail from that e-mail address. It you select this check box, the sender's address will be added to your Safe Senders list, and the junk filter won't make the same mistake again.
 
	If you'd rather not add a particular sender to your safe list, then you can simply drag a message that was misidentified as junk to any other folder using the mouse.
Note: E-mails considered as spam and moved to the Junk E-mail folder are automatically converted to the plain text format, any links contained in such messages are disabled. When you move a certain message out of the Junk folder, its links get enabled and the original message format restored, unless the Junk E-mail considers that those are suspicious links. In that case, even if you move it out of the Junk folder, the links in the message remain disabled by default.

	If important messages that you believe should be in your Inbox often end up in your Junk folder, then you can try to tweak the junk filter's settings as explained earlier in the article. If this does not help and you are still unhappy with the way the Junk Mail filter treats your e-mail, then you can turn it off and use other methods to stop junk email, e.g. third party tools or services.
	In order to turn the Microsoft Outlook's Junk filter off, go to Home > Junk > Junk E-mail Options… > Options tab, select No Automatic Filtering and click OK.

Note: When you select the No Automatic Filtering option, messages from your Blocked Senders list will still be moved to the Junk E-mail folder.
	If you want to completely disable automatic filtering, you can do this in 2 ways:

Clean your Blocked Senders list. In the Junk E-mail Options dialog window, navigate to the Blocked Senders tab, select all the addresses and click the Remove button.

If you think you might need the Blocked Senders list at some point in the future, then you can disable the Junk email filter in the registry.

Open the registry (click the Start button and type regedit).
Browse to the following registry key in Outlook 2010: HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Policies\Microsoft\office\14.0\outlook
	If you have Outlook 2013 installed, then the version number will be 15.0 instead of 14.0; for Outlook 2007 it will be 12.0.
Right click anywhere within the right-hand pane, add the DisableAntiSpam DWORD and set it to 1 (Value 1 disables the junk filter, 0 enables it).

 

	In this way you will have the junk filter completely disabled, including the Blocked Senders list. The Junk button on the Outlook ribbon will also be disabled and greyed out.
	And this seems to be all for today. Quite a whale of info, but hopefully it will prove to be useful and help you get rid of all those ugly spam e-mails in your Inbox, or at least reduce their number. Just remember that all filters, even the most powerful ones, have some false-positives results. So, simply make it a rule to periodically review your Junk folder to ensure that you do not miss any important messages. Thank you for reading!


How to backup Outlook emails and other items
How to archive in Outlook automatically or manually
How to schedule email in Outlook, delay delivery
How to get delivery receipt in Outlook
How to view Outlook Email Headers (internet headers)



 


Outlook: featured articles

How to fix "Cannot start Microsoft Outlook. Unable to open Outlook window" error
Merge duplicate contacts
Outlook Quick Parts and AutoText: how to create, edit and use






Table of contents



 









			September 30, 2020 at 7:12 pm 
To whom, I use Microsoft 2016 suite, the last 2 days I am unable send an email even to me, that will show up in my inbox. I do not know how to see who is in my junk block list.
Tim


Reply 







			January 9, 2020 at 5:25 pm 
I turned off the dialog box where I can check the email before blocking it in junk. How do I turn it back on?


Reply 







			December 25, 2019 at 10:34 am 
Thank you for the guidance.


Reply 







			December 10, 2019 at 8:27 pm 
when I receive an email from a dotted domain name such as:s @e9gsd00d.coffeeforlife.com,
can I put the last part of the domain name (coffeeforlife.com) as the domain to be blocked. It is apparent that they can change the first part of the domain on a daily basis.


Reply 







			April 29, 2020 at 7:46 pm 
you can block any domain by outlook rules.
create new rule,
mark option "containing specific words in the domain address"
put there any domaun you like to filter.
and mark "move it to folder"  for example junk or trash


Reply 









			October 21, 2019 at 11:02 am 
Thank you for the guidance.


Reply 







			September 11, 2019 at 6:09 pm 
All the emails I receive (even from someone on the safe senders list, include   *** SPAM ***  in the subject line. Is there a setting I can change to remove/prevent it. It is embarrassing to reply to a business contact's email and in the subject line it is indicated that the sender's email is classified as spam.


Reply 







			September 11, 2019 at 6:15 pm 
Most of the emails I receive in my Inbox (not in the junk mail folder) are marked as spam. Why and how do I change it?


Reply 









			April 10, 2019 at 6:53 am 
I think this is a particularly helpful piece of advice:
"Most often spammers send all those unsolicited emails from fake addresses, different from what you see in the From field. You can try to find the real address of the sender by looking in the Internet Headers of a message (open the message and go to the File tab > Info > Properties)."


Reply 







			February 7, 2018 at 10:28 am 
How to prevent email automatically goes to spam in outlook 2013.


Reply 







			October 13, 2017 at 7:55 am 
Just a smiling visitor here to share the love (:, btw great style and design. “The price one pays for pursuing a profession, or calling, is an intimate knowledge of its ugly side.” by James Arthur Baldwin.


Reply 







			October 1, 2017 at 5:00 pm 
I keep getting dozens of advertising spam from sender(s) which have an email such as "lolip19@grandmotherr.ddns.net".  Every name is different but the "ddns.net" is common in all of them.  I have been trying to globally junk them by using forms of "ddns.net", *.ddns.net", "*@*.ddns.net", etc. but they don't work.  How can I junk emails with this double-domain format?


Reply 







			September 29, 2017 at 6:52 pm 
After months of struggling with my boss's sent messages ending up in the junk folder in Outlook, I am very relieved to have finally resolved the issue. The culprit was the spam filter on his Samsung (S8) smartphone! For whatever reason, it had identified his own address (and a few other trusted addresses) as spam, and no amount of tinkering with settings in Outlook had any effect. Our fix was to start using the Outlook app on his phone and disable the native email app.


Reply 







			August 16, 2017 at 7:39 am 
Hi,
I have done all the settings as you described, still im getting spam mails in Inbox , Im totally fed up with receiving unwanted mails.
please suggest me any solution for this, Important mails are Automatically going spam folder
I`m using windows 10, 64bit operating system


Reply 







			August 2, 2017 at 8:06 pm 
I have NOT been receiving emails from all of my contacts in my address book. I hope it's cleared up ASAP. Thanks-Chuck Huddle


Reply 







			June 19, 2017 at 7:26 am 
Hi team, i have a question why all my sent email goes to junk not inbox but for 1email address only is it means someone block my domain or it might be happen by mistake of recipient? Other people can receive my email only 1adress receiving in junk? May i know the reason why like that? I want to know that is it done by someone who unwanted my email?


Reply 







			April 10, 2017 at 7:24 pm 
Do you not realize there is a MAJOR difference between OUTLOOK and OUTLOOK.COM?
Dear God wake up!


Reply 







			April 2, 2017 at 6:07 pm 
All my email goes in the Junk mail folder I have the Exclusive setting ticked. I have no mail filter rules. I am using outlook.com for Chrome os If the Exclusive setting supposed to only allow mail from Safe senders and Safe mailing lists then clearing its not working. I have done verious test using diffent email address I have and added them to the Safe senders list. I have also tried added the eemails to my contacts list but what ever I do makes no difference. So my question is why does Microsoft always write rubbish software. With all the money they get its discusting.


Reply 





 Larry says: 

			March 19, 2017 at 12:02 am 
how to block emails that have neither a to addressee nor a cc addressee?
That is, I have spam emails coming in where both of these fields are blank.
What to do?


Reply 





 jay says: 

			February 23, 2017 at 7:07 pm 
My email address had been put on a junk filter even though I'm not spamming any one.
How can i get my email address removed from outlook's spam/junk filter ?


Reply 





 Vince says: 

			February 16, 2017 at 5:19 pm 
Hello, I am using office 2013 and I've tried everything to block a particular spam (junkbox@integrity.it). I've block it, made a new rule to delete it and now I have it always in my deleted folder. What to do to make it disappear, I don't want to see it at all.


Reply 





 linda says: 

			December 27, 2016 at 2:17 pm 
Why do they  even allow the advertising to get through at all? Shouldn't it be our 'choice' seeing as we buy the computer- use the software and just want peace of mind away from this 'pushing' of their wants


Reply 





 Jay says: 

			November 18, 2016 at 7:03 pm 
I dont have any of those options in my outlook... maybe this is a paid version?  Mine is the free one.


Reply 





 Liz says: 

			October 3, 2016 at 7:56 am 
Sorry, the words are actually "[unsafe content]" ^^^


Reply 





 Liz says: 

			October 3, 2016 at 7:53 am 
Hi and thanks for your invaluable advice.  Is there any way to stop the "[unsafe contact]" words being placed into the Subject Line, please.  I'm using Outlook Office 365 2016.  Junk catches new safe senders emails and then embeds the "[unsafe contact]" words into the subject heading, which then stays there after marking the email safe and returning it to the Inbox folder.  Thanks a million in appreciation.


Reply 





 sevin a mheta says: 

			September 16, 2016 at 5:00 am 
I noticed that their addresses always start with a long list of numbers. Is there a way to set a filter to stop all emails coming from sources with the first 5 characters being numbers? Blocking them individually hasn't stemmed the tide.


Reply 





 Ray H. says: 

			September 11, 2016 at 3:31 pm 
I have been receiving more and more junk mail from young ladies wanting to date me.  I noticed that their addresses always start with a long list of numbers.  Is there a way to set a filter to stop all emails coming from sources with the first 5 characters being numbers?  Blocking them individually hasn't stemmed the tide.


Reply 





 Mike S says: 

			August 15, 2016 at 5:51 pm 
Hi I have Outlook 2013 on my desktop, and get a lot of Junk mail that I using click Junk, then Block sender, it will put them all in the box, but then the next time I use it, they are all gone and and I have to put them in the junk folder again. Where does the Junk mail go and how do I get them to remain and not have to redo it every time? Thanks Mike


Reply 





 Michael K says: 

			July 26, 2016 at 10:40 pm 
I have upgraded from Outlook 2010 to 2013 (and now running Windows 10) and for some reason I can't figure out how I can set my JUNK MAIL setting (to Low) for each individual email accounts that I have in Outlook
I have separate 4 separate email POP/SMTP accounts, and all four of them are connected to one OUTLOOK.PST file.
So, how can I go and setup each ones JUNK MAIL filter.  I seem to be only be able to select for the PRIMARY / DEFAULT one.
Please advise me on what I may be missing.


Reply 





 Gus LOBEGEIER says: 

			July 20, 2016 at 12:14 am 
How can we stop international rubbish Mail coming on RSS on Microsoft outlook. This is annoying and jams up your computer..


Reply 





 Tom Kelley says: 

			June 22, 2016 at 9:48 pm 
How can I keep spam mail from going to my iPhone 6 out of Outlook 2010?
Everything I have read is the iPhone can't block it only Outlook can. But how?


Reply 





 andrew says: 

			April 27, 2016 at 7:46 pm 
outllok 2010 does not move junk mail out of my inbox until I click on it. It used to never make it to my inbox. how do I fix it?


Reply 





 GB says: 

			January 14, 2016 at 3:58 pm 
I would like to be able to filter & permanently delete email based on one word or phrase in the From field. However, Outlook doesn't seem to allow this. It's necessary because while I get dozens of spams containing "aig" in the From field, few are phrased exactly the same, much the way no 2 email addresses from spammers are exactly alike. And "aig" appears nowhere else in the email. I have maxed out the filters on my Verizon account, so that's no longer an option.


Reply 





 Jim says: 

			January 27, 2016 at 10:31 am 
As I posted above, I have solved this by using the RULES function. You have so many more options. The one I use is  "specific words appear in the senders address" and just entered a text string that always appears. Then simply move the e-mail to the junk folder. I have a couple of rules with things like "smdlv.net" or whatever is being used for the mailing list and it is picking up most of the trash. Good luck with "aig"


Reply 





 Jim says: 

			January 27, 2016 at 10:34 am 
You CAN send mail to the junk folder or anywhere else using the RULES function. You have a lot more options. I have chosen "specific words appear in the senders address" and just entered a text string that always appears. You can even EXclude other specific words if you have a sender that uses the same mailing list that you want to receive mail from. I have chosen words like "smdlv.net" or whatever always appears at the end. It works. Good luck with "aig"


Reply 







 pETER says: 

			January 3, 2016 at 4:19 pm 
Hi- the junk email setting works fine for me BUT if I delete all the junk emails then the same spam starts coming back into my inbox and once again I have to start adding them to junk email.


Reply 





 Nebiyu Eyassu says: 

			September 17, 2015 at 12:55 am 
Shame on Microsoft, I regret upgrading to Windows 10, it has no junk mail blocking choice, money, of course, you are diminishing your good name.


Reply 





 Nebiyu Eyassu says: 

			September 17, 2015 at 12:53 am 
Shame on Microsoft, we need to block what we feel as junk; why do you go backwards? Money of course, you are diminishing your good name.Good luck!


Reply 





 Kym says: 

			August 12, 2015 at 8:41 pm 
I didn't notice if this was addressed or not but we just switched from pop3 to imap for incoming mail.  Prior to this switch i rarely received junk in my inbox.  Now I'm bombarded and overwhelmed with junk email.  I have two offices and I'm using Outlook 2010 on one computer and I believe office 360 on the other. Does that pose any kind of conflict at all.  We're thinking maybe we need to switch hosting companies. Any help appreciated,  thanks


Reply 





 friendlytec_brasil says: 

			June 13, 2015 at 6:16 pm 
I really appreciated this page, as somehow my sisters e-mail was accidentally added to the junk bin, I found this page extremely helpful as I searched and searched google for a solution, which I finally found - only on this page, that  showed me clearly  how to remove her name from the junk list - Thanks AbleBits your help was gratefully appreciated


Reply 





 kl says: 

			June 3, 2015 at 12:41 am 
this relates to outlook 2013


Reply 





 kl says: 

			June 3, 2015 at 12:40 am 
If charlie spammer is sending me emails from ALL of the following (multiple) domains - AND more, do i need to put all those entries in the blocked senders list or is there some shortcut to this madness. I tried putting @domaina.com in the blocked senders list but that does not seem to block any of charlies messages. Any suggestions?
first.domaina.com
second.domaina.com
third.domaina.com
fourth.domaina.com
fifth.domaina.com
sixth.domaina.com
etc.


Reply 





 Jim says: 

			January 23, 2016 at 12:48 pm 
If you are being plagued by one particular person or company and outlook's junk filter is not working (usually because the domain changes each time) you should be able to set up a "RULE". Go into rules instead of junk and search for a particular string of letters in the senders address and then simply MOVE it to the JUNK folder.
I am looking forward to trying this as I am getting lots of mail from domains like "@mail16.atl91.mcsv.net" where the numbers keep changing every time.
I will report back if it works.


Reply 





 Jim says: 

			January 27, 2016 at 10:24 am 
Yes it does work. You CAN send mail to the junk folder or anywhere else using the RULES function. You have a lot more options. I have chosen "specific words appear in the senders address" and just entered a text string that always appears. You can even EXclude other specific words if you have a sender that uses the same mailing list that you want to receive mail from. Hope this idea helps someone.


Reply 





 kl says: 

			April 10, 2016 at 2:29 am 
Thanks you. I will give it a try.


Reply 











 Sharon says: 

			March 14, 2015 at 1:40 am 
Hi, some of my domain emails do not automatically have a junk folder and others do.
How can I create a junk folder that junk will automatically go to?
Thanks
Sharon


Reply 





 Irina Pozniakova (Ablebits Team) says: 

			March 4, 2016 at 5:05 pm 
Hi Sharon, 
Could you please specify if you don't see the Junk Email folder in Outlook?


Reply 







 jj says: 

			March 12, 2015 at 10:49 am 
how do I stop emails going into the "Unwanted" file tab when they should be in my inbox?


Reply 





 Irina Pozniakova (Ablebits Team) says: 

			March 4, 2016 at 5:02 pm 
Hello, 
If you get such emails from the same senders, you can add their email, domain, or distribution list to the list of Safe Senders via Junk E-mail Options. Please also see this part of the blog post for the steps to take email out of the Junk folder:
https://www.ablebits.com/office-addins-blog/2014/01/31/stop-junk-email-outlook/#move-from-junk


Reply 







 Will says: 

			March 3, 2015 at 3:38 pm 
I have Outlook 2007 by the way...


Reply 





 Will says: 

			March 3, 2015 at 3:36 pm 
Hello, is there a way to ensure that .zip files are not accepted in Outlook? We have a virus that is using the names in our contacts list that sends out emails with a .zip file attached which contains the virus... We have run virus scans, removed the viruses, but yet a name will show up from our contacts and the virus file attached. Please help.


Reply 





 akshay says: 

			February 18, 2015 at 7:25 am 
how to stop auto send spamming mail in outlook 2003


Reply 





 Scarlett says: 

			January 13, 2015 at 7:30 pm 
Svetlana,
Your article is the most comprehensive one on junk email that I've see so far.  Great job!
I group all the junk emails that I want to block in a folder and I try to click Junk (on the ribbon) and then Block Sender at once.  I was able to do this (blocking senders from multiple emails) last week (so I was very happy and recorded the steps) but today, Outlook only allows me to block one email at a time.  Very strange.  Anyone has any insight?  Thanks much!


Reply 





 Irina Pozniakova (Ablebits Team) says: 

			March 4, 2016 at 4:57 pm 
Hello Scarlett, 
Thank you very much for your feedback!
Outlook allows you only to block a particular sender, it does not support blocking multiple emails you select. There are third-party tools that let you do this, but no standard way except for blocking them one by one.


Reply 







 Prageesh says: 

			January 12, 2015 at 9:18 pm 
I have so many personalized setting in my laptop and i am going to replace the same now. How to transfer all the settings in new laptop.


Reply 





 Irina Pozniakova (Ablebits Team) says: 

			March 4, 2016 at 4:38 pm 
Hello Prageesh, 
You can find the instructions for moving your Outlook data on Microsoft support site:
https://support.office.com/en-us/article/Move-an-Outlook-data-file-from-one-computer-to-another-e7b2e7b2-fb87-406c-85c7-04d4b69cf9a0?ui=en-US&rs=en-US&ad=US


Reply 







 Ameer says: 

			December 17, 2014 at 1:32 pm 
All of sudden my junk settings became empty.As of my knowledge we will not be able to recover the safer and block sender list.
Do we have any other option to recover it ?


Reply 





 Cathy says: 

			December 7, 2014 at 5:52 pm 
Hello,
I have a question: I have over 7000 blocked email in the blocked senders. How do I find the one that I want to get out of it? I copy paste all of them and sorted them in word, found the email but surely cannot find it in the little window. Any tricks? Thanks


Reply 





 Irina Pozniakova (Ablebits Team) says: 

			March 4, 2016 at 4:33 pm 
Hello Cathy, 
Unfortunately, Outlook does not provide search in the list of blocked addresses. However, the list is sorted, so it may help with finding the right address quicker. You can also export the list to file, edit it in a text editor and save the changes. Then clear the list in Outlook and import the edited file.
We hope this helps.


Reply 







 Lee Deng says: 

			December 1, 2014 at 8:23 pm 
I received junk emails with the sender's name WSJwine almost every day but the email addresses are different. I marked blocking this sender but some of them still come to my in box. Is there any way to specify any email with the sender name WSJwine going to junk email folder no matter what the email address is? I think that Outlook is too stupid to do this simple task. Gmail handles this very well.


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			December 4, 2014 at 3:05 pm 
Hi Lee,
Surprisingly, Outlook can't block incoming emails by a sender's name. You need a more powerful and flexible anti-spam filter. Generally, filters based on Bayesian's algorithm are considered to be the best.


Reply 







 liza says: 

			November 12, 2014 at 3:16 pm 
I have not quite the same problem but one I cant find an answer to anywhere.  All my incoming emails are now being marked as SPAM, they dont go to my junk folder, but no matter how often I mark them never block sender (which is the only thing I can find to do) the next time I have an email from that person it comes back marked SPAM.  I have to remember to unmark the email when I reply otherwise it goes to them as Spam,  How can I stop this spam marking phenonema.  Its fairly recent and I use Outlook 2010.


Reply 





 Irina Pozniakova (Ablebits Team) says: 

			March 4, 2016 at 4:27 pm 
Hello Lisa,
Please send your Outlook rules and Junk Mail filter settings to support@ablebits.com. If possible, please also attach a sample email that is marked as SPAM.
We'll see if there is anything we can do to help you.


Reply 







 Manish D. says: 

			November 11, 2014 at 8:59 pm 
From what I saw setting it up in Windows 8, the key location was:
Outlook 2010: HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\office\14.0\outlook


Reply 





 Chris says: 

			October 13, 2014 at 1:56 pm 
Hi Svetlana
I have a slightly different issue with Outlook 2010 on my note book.  I receive mail items through Outlook on my Surface tablet or my iPhone, which I do not receive on my notebook. It does not get filtered to the spam folder, it just doesn't arrive... While this is consistent with some of the senders, often it happens on a random basis with people I correspond with regularly. 
Help ???


Reply 





 Renato Ciuffo says: 

			October 23, 2014 at 3:50 pm 
Hey Chris,
Check your email settings on your Surface and iPhone. There is a setting about whether to leave messages on the server or not after downloading them to your device, and often times, it will be set to not leave them on the server by default. Messages need to be left on the server in order for your other devices to see them.


Reply 







 Tina says: 

			October 8, 2014 at 2:43 pm 
Before when we would report junk mail to Microsoft using the junk mail button in outlook we would get an email within 24 hours from Microsoft about the reported email.  We no longer receive those and are getting more and more junk mail and reporting but they are still coming through.  Did they stop the acknowledgement?


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			October 10, 2014 at 12:08 pm 
Hello Tina,
It looks strange, please try contacting Microsoft support service (support.microsoft.com) for assistance.


Reply 







 Lynne S. says: 

			August 30, 2014 at 2:03 pm 
is there a way to run the outlook junk processing on your inbox once you've increased the level of checking?
I would like to up the spam filter, run it, then check the junk mail box for any senders that I might want to set up as safe.  Can I do that?


Reply 





 Chris Maltezo says: 

			August 28, 2014 at 12:19 pm 
I have the same problem as Mark w/ 2013 and the Spam Filter has NEVER worked.  Should I just go back to 2010 as I've tried everything else?


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			August 28, 2014 at 12:42 pm 
Hi Chris,
Since each email account in Outlook 2010 and 2013 has its own Junk Mail settings, be sure to configure the junk filter for ALL the accounts you have in Outlook (you do this by selecting a message in the needed account before opening the Junk E-mail Options dialog).


Reply 







 Steve says: 

			August 15, 2014 at 7:53 pm 
Thanks for the helpful article.  I'm using Outlook for the Mac.  I can't seem to get Outlook to stop filtering email to the Junk Folder.  Junk Filtering is turned off . . . still, emails (legitimate) are often being sent to my Junk Folder.  Any idea what is doing the filtering?


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			August 18, 2014 at 8:08 am 
Hello Steve,
I do not have Mac, that is why I cannot advise anything of value. Sorry.


Reply 







 Debbie says: 

			August 9, 2014 at 10:43 pm 
Here is a way to delete the .eu suffice
http://www.slipstick.com/outlook/email/add-eu-international-tld-blocked-list/


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			August 11, 2014 at 10:50 am 
Hi Debbie,
Thank you very much for pointing to the solution!


Reply 







 Joe says: 

			July 29, 2014 at 6:33 pm 
I'm getting bombarded by *.*.eu emails.  They are changing the domain in all of the junk but, they all end in .eu -- is there any way to simply block that suffix?  
thx!
j


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			July 30, 2014 at 9:32 am 
Hi Joe,
For some reason, EU is not available in the "Blocked Top-Level Domains" List on the International tab (at least in my Outlook 2013), that is why there is no way to block all emails with the .eu suffix like you can block any other suffixes such as .de, .es, etc. Not sure why Microsoft did not include EU along with all other counties and regions. In this situation, I can only advise you checking out more powerful and flexible antispam software. Sorry for not being able to help better.


Reply 







 michael says: 

			July 2, 2014 at 7:46 am 
tks!


Reply 





 Rich says: 

			June 26, 2014 at 1:17 pm 
OK. I am going to sound very stupid here, but I do not know how to identify a domain. As you mentioned, spammers may send the same email but from a different email address every time. I think of domain as the part of the email address: @domain.com for example. Well that changes every time. I know that it is one spammer sending thousands of emails to me but I cannot identify that.
I did your direction of adding "spam-domain.com" to the block senders section of Outlook but it did nothing. Was that just a generic term and that you really had to know the root domain of the spammer - which is obviously hidden? Any suggestions are helpful. Thanks!


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			June 27, 2014 at 11:57 am 
Hello Rich,
This is a very good question! Your understanding is correct, the domain name is part of the email address that comes after the at sign (@), like in your example @domain.com. And yes, I used "spam-domain.com" as the generic term and you have to know the real domain name of the spammer to add it to the Block senders list. 
As you rightly noticed, most often spammers send their messages from different email addresses each time and quite often these are fake addresses. You can try to find the real address of the sender in the internet headers of a message (open the message and go to the File tab > Info > Properties). Very often the email address you will see there will be different from what you see in the From field. You can check the internet headers of several junk emails in this way and if they all are sent from the same domain name, add that spammer to the Block senders list.


Reply 







 Mark says: 

			June 9, 2014 at 8:08 pm 
I've got the same problem as John.  I have always used Safe List Only because if I don't know someone sending me mail, I probably don't want it.  Other than my contacts, there aren't a whole lot of people I want to hear from.  But... since I upgraded to 2013, the safe list option doesn't work.  I block email addresses but they come through anyway.  I block domains but they come through anyway.  It's a nightmare.  I even switched email providers (from Google to Outlook.com).  I'm switching back to Outlook 2010 next weekend.


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			June 10, 2014 at 8:37 am 
Hi Mark,
Before downgrading to Outlook 2010, you might want to check one thing, just in case. Do you have your own contact (with your email address) in your Outlook Address Book? If you do, and if you selected the option "Also trust email from my contacts", this may be the real cause of the problem because all emails sent to your address would be considered safe by default.


Reply 







 John says: 

			May 3, 2014 at 5:41 am 
2013 Junk Mail options are the worst ever.
They do NOT work.
Even if I check 'Safe List Only' - dozen of repetitive spam crap keeps coming though.
Even is I add the domain .me to Blocked senders, emails from .me keep coming right through.
After 3 week of this I am fed up and considering going back to Office suite 2010 - which works fine.
2007 was also fine
2013 seems a can of worms.


Reply 





 Tom says: 

			June 26, 2014 at 10:02 am 
I've got the same problem as John and Mark, than one of the notes of this article help me understand why:
Note: This is just a quick reminder that each email account in Outlook 2010 and 2013 has its own Junk Mail settings. So, be sure to select a message in the needed account before you open the Junk E-mail Options dialog.


Reply 





 Geoff says: 

			June 16, 2016 at 3:37 pm 
Do you by chance have yourself in your safe recipients? or maybe have yourself in your address book?


Reply 





 Malcolm says: 

			January 16, 2019 at 12:49 am 
Thank you Geoff.  That was exactly my problem and I would never have found it without your post.


Reply 









 Gary says: 

			April 15, 2014 at 2:40 am 
For some reason ?? even though I set the junk mail setting to "High" SOMETHING keeps changing it to NO junk filtering.  I have done every virus test known to man.  I can tell when it happens the spam begins to flood in.   Any ideas? Outlook 2003.  
Thanks much
Gary


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			April 15, 2014 at 12:41 pm 
Hello Gary,
I can think of just one possible cause. May it be that you have some third-party anti-spam software installed in your Outlook that changes your setting in order to process all incoming email? Please check out your Add-ins and COM add-ins lists (Outlook Menu > Tools > Options >  Other >  Advanced options...).


Reply 







 Jeff says: 

			April 11, 2014 at 10:32 am 
Is there any way in which a list of junk mail can be highlighted and all marked as junk?  I am getting dozens of unwanted junk/spam emails with the same theme presumably from spoofed or high-jacked email accounts (none are the same sender and all to different names @ my email address) and I am having to mark as junk individually, it would be a time saver to be able to block the lot and have them all marked Junk?  I don't think its possible but I thought I would ask!
Thanks
Jeff


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			April 11, 2014 at 3:52 pm 
Hi Jeff,
If you are using Outlook 2010 or 2013, you can create a Quick Step to move a message to the Junk folder and assign some shortcut to it, say CTRL + Shift + 1. When you need to mark a bunch of emails as spam, press that shortcut and they all will get to Junk straight away. Regrettably, Outlook does not have any means to automate this process.
As an alternative, you can consider installing some third-party anti-spam software with a more powerful spam filter's than Outlook's.


Reply 







 KJ says: 

			February 20, 2014 at 5:40 pm 
I have changed the setting to block the junk email as indicated above but that didn't stop the junk emails from coming. I receive 75 or more junk emails per day. Anything else that I can do?


Reply 





 Svetlana Cheusheva says: 

			February 21, 2014 at 2:58 pm 
Hi KJ,
I am afraid in this case Outlook's built-in filter won't suffice even if you set it to the High level. You need a more powerful and flexible anti-spam filter. Generally, filters based on  Bayesian's algorithm are considered to be the best.


Reply 









Click here to cancel reply.












Thank you for your comment! When posting a question, please be very clear and concise. This will help us provide a quick and relevant solution to your query. We cannot guarantee that we will answer every question, but we'll do our best :)


You hear the sound of an incoming text message and excitedly check your phone. But it's just a junk message sent to you by a spammer trying to con you into tapping a link, opening an attachment, calling a number, or doing something else likely to cause you trouble.Robotexts and spam messages are a fact of life, just like robocalls and junk email. They may not be as invasive as a spam call, since you can largely ignore them, but that doesn't make them harmless. Some phone plans may charge you for incoming text messages and smishing (SMS phishing) attacks can be even more dangerous if you're not careful.However, you don’t have to put up with them. Just as you can fight against robocalls, you can block and stop robotexts with the right tricks and tools.




First and foremost, do not interact with the message. If you click a link or attachment in a spam message, it could trigger malware that infects your phone. You also don't want to respond. Many legitimate robotexts include an option to text STOP to tell the company to remove you from their distribution list, but that doesn't work with scammers.In fact, by responding to a spam message, you're only confirming to the scammer that your number is valid. From there, your phone number may be disseminated to other scammers, increasing your odds of getting more junk messages. So unless you know the text came from a legitimate company that honors such requests, you're better off not responding at all.You can block a number that's been sending you junk messages. The drawback with this approach is that spammers typically spoof or switch phone numbers. So even if you block the number, you can still receive messages from the same spammer using a different number.




On an iPhone, open the text message you received. Tap the phone number at the top of the screen and then tap the Info button. At the next screen, select Block this Caller and then tap Block Contact to confirm.




On an Android phone, open the text and tap the three-dot icon in the upper right. The steps then vary based on your phone and OS version. Either select the Block number option, or select Details and then tap Block & report spam.




You can report a robotext to your mobile carrier by forwarding it to a specific number. To do this on an iPhone, press down on the offending message. Tap More and then tap the right arrow to forward it as a new text. To do this on an Android phone, press down on the message. Tap the three-dot icon at the top and select Forward. Text the new message to 7726, which spells out SPAM. The number works for AT&T, Verizon Wireless, and T-Mobile, all of which will use the information to try and block future spam messages.




On an Android phone, you can disable all potential spam messages from Google's Messages app(Opens in a new window). Tap the three-dot icon in the upper right of the app and select Settings > Spam protection and turn on the Enable spam protection switch. Your phone will now alert you if an incoming message is suspected of being spam.




On an iPhone, you can filter messages from unknown senders into their own folder within the Messages app. Go to Settings > Messages. Turn on the switch for Filter Unknown Senders.The top US mobile carriers offer their own filtering and blocking tools for subscribers. For the most part, they're geared more toward spam phone calls, but they can also block numbers that attempt to deliver spam text messages.




Verizon’s Call Filter(Opens in a new window) blocks robocalls and spam messages. The basic version is free, while the Plus version costs $2.99 for a single line or $7.99 a month for three or more lines. T-Mobile offers Scam Shield(Opens in a new window), a collection of free services to detect, block, and mislead spam and scam callers. It also includes a caller ID feature for numbers not already in your contact list.The carriers also have technology on the back end to identify and block spam messages in much the same way email providers try to stop spam email messages. If you need more robust robotext filtering, you may want to check out a third-party app.




SpamHound is a free service that works differently depending on the type of phone you own. The iOS(Opens in a new window) app supplements Apple's built-in Messages app to filter out SMS spam. But the Android(Opens in a new window) app becomes your default SMS app for sending and receiving texts. SpamHound automatically displays past text messages and provides easy access to your contacts, but you can't add GIFs, images, videos, or other files.As for message blocking, it can detect spam based on keywords and other factors. To fine-tune SpamHound’s powers of deduction, you’re encouraged to create blacklist and whitelist rules for what you want filtered out or allowed to come through.




Designed just for iOS, SMS Spam Stopper(Opens in a new window) is a $2.99 app that uses artificial intelligence to try to detect spam messages. The app attempts to block spam that matches the SMS signatures of the 5,000 spam SMS messages in its own database. You can also tweak the app to block texts from any number not in your contacts. You’re even able to set up allowed words, blocked words, and blocked phone numbers to further control and filter out likely spam messages.To get you started, SMS Spam Stopper helpfully provides a series of videos to show you how to configure it. After that, any spam messages that it detects are banished to the Unknown & Junk section of the iOS messaging app where you can review them.




Designed for iOS(Opens in a new window) and Android(Opens in a new window), RoboKiller costs $3.99 a month or $29.99 a year. The app looks at each message to analyze the phone number, message content, attachments, and other elements to determine if the text is legitimate or not.To set up SMS spam blocking on an Android phone, go to Settings and select the option for SMS Spam Recognition. Though the feature can’t stop SMS spam from reaching you entirely, it will alert you if a text message is tagged as spam so that you can determine whether to respond or ignore it. On an iPhone, go to Settings > Messages > Unknown & Spam. In the section for SMS Filtering, turn on the switch for RoboKiller. If a message is deemed to be spam, RoboKiller moves it to the SMS Junk folder in the Messages app where you can review it.




The folks behind RoboKiller also offer an iPhone app called TextKiller(Opens in a new window) specifically to block text messages. By default, the app looks for certain words, terms, and other tip-offs to determine which texts are spam. You can assist it by labeling spam messages so it learns from your actions.You can also set up block filters by adding specific phone numbers and blacklisting keywords such as “Buy now.” Any messages identified as spam are stored in a separate junk tab separate from legitimate texts. The basic version is free but limited. A premium edition costs $3.99 a month or $29.99 a year with a free one-week trial.







Like What You're Reading?
Sign up for Tips & Tricks newsletter for expert advice to get the most out of your technology.




Email







This newsletter may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. Subscribing to a newsletter indicates your consent to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe from the newsletters at any time. 


Thanks for signing up!
Your subscription has been confirmed. Keep an eye on your inbox!
Sign up for other newsletters


February 8, 2022                

 Email communication is an integral part of every business. It’s a fast, inexpensive, and effective way of sending messages over the internet. Even with the emergence of alternative methods like Microsoft Team and Slack, email usage still dominates the world of business communication. But where there’s email, there’s spam email.
While unsolicited emails are often promotional in nature, a significant portion is malicious, aiming to damage or hijack your systems. Organizations should take proactive measures and learn how to block spam emails.
But first, what is spam email?

Spam email, or junk email, refers to unwanted commercial messages sent in bulk. They often advertise products and services, but they can also contain fraudulent incentives and offers. 
The name was derived from a Monty Python skit where the actor asked people to consume the canned port product, SPAM Lunch Meat, whether they liked it or not. Similarly, every email account holder is subject to spam email, whether they want it or not. 
According to Statista, spam messages accounted for 41.5% of email traffic in March 2021. These emails can fall into different categories, including advertising, adult content, and phishing scams. Although stats show that spam email senders only get one response for every 12,500,000 emails sent, they still earn over $7,000 daily. Spamming is incredibly lucrative, and it’s not going anywhere.

Now that you have an idea about what is email spamming let’s get into an example. Attackers typically send emails containing mouth-watering offers or incentives like “how to make money online” or an “unbelievable discount” on popular software or hardware. Never engage with these types of emails. If it’s too good to be true, it almost always is. 

Spammers employ different techniques to bombard people with unsolicited messages. They try to create a sense of urgency, forcing recipients to perform actions and avoid thinking of the glaring inconsistencies of their requests. 
Spammers adopt social engineering tactics in their spam campaigns. They perform in-depth research to gain an advanced understanding of the needs of their victims. Then they message them with a convincing story, aiming to trick them into revealing information or depositing funds. Below are some common techniques used by spam email senders:

“Make money fast” or pyramid schemes: Most scammers leverage the fact that people are looking for various ways to make money online. So they send emails advertising numerous “fast ways to become a millionaire.” 
Alluring offers: These spam emails come in various forms. However, the most common of all are eCommerce discounts or “once-in-a-lifetime” travel packages.
Stock offerings for unknown businesses: Investment scams promising massive returns are yet another category of offers that land in your inbox.
Advance-fee scams: Spammers promise the victim a significant item or share of money in return for a small upfront. 
Other urgent offers that demand action: As a social engineering tactic, spammers leverage the urgency factor as much as they can. Whether the email asks you to send a small amount of money to get heritage from “a Nigerian prince” or buy a malware protection app, it rushes you into action.

While email is the most common spam delivery method, spam senders contact their victims via other channels too. These include ads, text messages, and calls. Whatever the means, spam is spam regardless.

The sky’s the limit when it comes to spam emails. But there are a few popular categories that attackers find lucrative, such as the ones below: 
Adult Content
This type of spam offers products designed to enhance sexual performance or enlarge certain body parts, contains pornography ads, or encourages recipients to view adult content. This method has been highly effective, but it’s not as fruitful anymore, and spammers are looking for new ways to scam victims.
Health
Health spam email advertises “amazing” weight-loss products, dietary supplements, cures for baldness, and skincare. Victims are tricked into purchasing pills and remedies online. Always read reviews and do your research before parting with your money. One way to find out about a product is to do an online search with the following formula: “product name spam”.
IT
This category of spam offers discounts on IT-related products. Security software and web services such as web hosting, website optimization, and domain registration are all popular. Hardware offers are also common.
Personal Finance
Personal finance spam preys on financially desperate victims, offering access to funds, debt reduction services, insurance, and loans with low-interest rates. Spammers also send out emails advertising a “compete-and-win” offer to reduce mortgage payments. 
Education and Training
Spam in this category offers “free” training, access to exclusive seminars, or amazing online courses or degrees. For instance, you can receive an email about an online Master’s degree in computer science, followed by a link that you need to click for registration or more information. 
These kinds of spam emails use urgency (like “act fast before it’s too late”) as a social engineering tool to rush you into making a quick decision.

Spam emails have been around almost as long as email. The first spam messages were sent in 1978 via email to hundreds of ARPANET users.
While spam email was the main evil in the 90s, its effectiveness is declining due to sophisticated spam detection and filtering.
These spam filters identify dangerous mail from attackers. According to Statista, the spam email rate has decreased dramatically in recent years. The global yearly spam email rate was 55% in 2018, down from 69% in 2012, and now at 45.1% in 2021. 
The classic method of spamming is subsiding. But spammers still employ different social engineering tactics. They make their emails more genuine-looking to gain the trust of their victims. 

While spam emails are unavoidable, there are some ways you can prevent these unsolicited messages from bombarding your inbox. How to stop getting spam emails? Follow the tips below.

Keep business emails professional. Don’t send an email from your personal address to your clients. Likewise, don’t use your business email for personal matters. 

Depending on the kind of email client your company uses, there’s usually an option to implement spam filters. This automatically sends all letters with a certain subject line, a particular source, or a specific word to your spam or trash folder. 
You can reach out to your email client or read their guide on how to set the filter to prevent and remove spam messages. However, check the trash or spam folder before emptying it. Sometimes, it might contain a legitimate message. 

Spam emails contain malicious links that can infect your system with malware. So when you receive an email from an unknown source, make sure it’s trustworthy and legitimate. Think carefully before you click on the link within the email – even “Unsubscribe” links can be loaded with malware. 

Spammers try to create a sense of urgency using different social engineering tactics. Even if the message is from a legitimate source, we recommend you reach out to the sender to confirm the request before taking any action. 
A good example is a financial accountant who received an email from the CEO to approve a payment. Get across to the boss and verify any request before fulfilling it as the attacker might pretend to be the CEO.

Don’t just open emails from unknown senders without proper investigation. Check the email header to confirm the source. You’ll find a button on the right-hand side known as “show original,” “view full header,” or “view source.” Confirm the “from-address” and the “reply-to” address. If they both contain the same address, it’s legit. But if the addresses are different, this may indicate that the email is malicious. 

We all make mistakes while rushing, but an organization sending out legitimate messages won’t contain punctuation or spelling mistakes. This is a red flag that the mail is suspicious. Hackers make mistakes knowingly to avoid spam filters. So be on the lookout for any typos or grammatical mistakes in your emails. 

If you feel an email is fishy, this might be a phishing attempt. Don’t doubt your instinct. Confirm any email request from the proper authority before you take any action. It’s better to be safe than sorry. 

Now that you know what is spam email and how to prevent it, you can be more confident in protecting yourself and your organization.
While spam messages can contain malicious links or other dangerous malware, it doesn’t mean that you should stop using email to communicate with your customers and colleagues. Teach yourself and your employees to differentiate between legitimate and malicious communication.
Spam email is an entry point for many other social engineering attacks, so learning how to stay safe from various dangers on the internet is crucial for individuals and companies.


MAILBIRD BLOG


Home
Productivity
Business Insights
Email Management
Team Management
Mailbird Features
Case Studies








Categories 


Productivity
Business Insights
Email Management
Team Management
Mailbird Features
Case Studies








Posted by Anastasia Kryzhanovska on April 14, 2022



 







Anastasia KryzhanovskaSenior Content ManagerAnastasia is a content marketer and manager with a strong IT background, passionate about storytelling and SEO. She likes creating high-quality content and helping others develop their skills. Besides work, she loves traveling, extreme sports, and reading fantasy books.Published on April 14, 2022Last Updated on May 3, 2022








Do you often feel like there’s too much on your plate? Especially when you head over to your inbox in the morning and see another 200 messages waiting for your response? 
Here is the thing — only a few of them deserve your attention, while the rest take your focus away from more important tasks. 
You’ve definitely had this thought: “If I could only get rid of all that spam!”
The good news is that stopping spam emails is doable, and even the messiest inbox can transform into a spam-free oasis. It’s only a matter of a good strategy and effective execution.
So, let’s find out how to stop spam emails and free your inbox from unnecessary trash. As well as what email client and other tools you can use to fight the clutter.
 
Contents 

 
What Is Spam and Why Is It Still Popular?

 
How to Stop Spam Emails

 
Tools to Help You Protect Your Inbox from Spam

 
Additional Tips on How to Prevent Spam Emails from Getting into Your Inbox

 
Let’s Wrap It Up – Regain Control of Your Inbox














what is spam & why is it still popular?
How to stop spam emails
tools to help protect your inbox from spam
TIPS FOR PREVENTING SPAM EMAILS











What Is Spam? How It Destroys Healthy Relations with Your Mailbox






Spam emails are the ones you haven’t given your consent to receive, according to the classical definition. 

Nowadays, the term is most often used in reference to emails you agreed to receive but that come to your inbox too often or have become irrelevant to you.

Apart from the obvious commercial purpose of promotion, spam can also be used to achieve other goals, which might not always be legal. Some of those emails may contain links that can infect your computer, while others may be used as money scams.

To summarize, spam emails can be seen as messages or communication you don’t want to receive, no matter whether you have given consent to get them or not.














Why Is Spam Still So Popular?






You undoubtedly receive a lot of marketing and cold outreach emails you never open. The thing is that a lot of busy people like you don’t react to such emails very well. 

If fewer people than ever before interact with emails and buy the products advertised within them, how can email still be practiced by advertisers on such a grand scale?

It’s because email marketing and cold email outreach are still an effective revenue-generating channel — for some companies, it generates $42 for each dollar spent.  

So, yeah, it works, even though it may seem annoying to many recipients.










Fighting email spam is somewhat similar to losing weight. 
You have two choices. The first one is going on a restrictive diet, while the other is losing weight step-by-step by establishing a healthy relationship with food. 
Guess what! The latter scenario would help you maintain a healthy weight longer.
Fighting spam emails is similar — it’s not only about archiving unnecessary emails or unsubscribing from newsletters, but also building new habits.

Let’s dig a little deeper into some tried-and-proven strategies on how to permanently stop spam emails.

Some company newsletters can quickly become irrelevant, so you’ll want to unsubscribe from them before they take up any more of your time.
Usually, there should be an unsubscribe button at the bottom of an email, but some companies choose to hide or remove it. 

To opt out from a newsletter you no longer want to receive, click the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom or — if you’re using Mailbird — click this easily accessible button on the top.


What if you don’t want to unsubscribe from all types of newsletters a certain company sends you? 
Some emails you receive — for example, special discounts — may be important, while other information is irrelevant.
In this case, you may adjust your email preferences in the newsletter’s subscription settings and choose which lists to opt out from.
A corresponding link can usually be found at the bottom of an email. 


Spam filters are set up by default in most email providers. They assess each email to later identify spam and send it to the Junk or Spam folder without you even knowing about it. 
However, the functioning of in-built spam filters is not always perfect, and they don’t capture 100% of the spam every time. That’s why it’s worth adding your own filter lists to improve the process.
By using filters, you will make your email provider automatically move messages that fulfill the criteria you define into a spam folder. 
Let’s briefly look at how you can do that in the most popular email services — Gmail, Outlook, and Yahoo.







How to stop spam emails in Gmail






Let’s go through these four simple steps to create spam filters in your Gmail inbox.

Log into your Gmail account.
Click the Show search options icon located in the search bar of your Gmail inbox. Then, a window for defining criteria should appear. Define your filter criteria.
Define what Gmail should do with the emails that meet the criteria (e.g., skip the inbox, mark as read, or star it).
Click Create Filter. 















How to stop spam emails in Outlook






Here’s how it works in Outlook.

Proceed to Settings in Outlook and click View all Outlook settings.
Find the Mail tab and select Rules.
Add your rules.
Save changes.















How to stop spam emails in Yahoo






Trying to understand how to permanently stop spam emails in your Yahoo inbox? Just follow these five steps.

Click Settings and proceed to More Settings.
Click Filters.
Click Add new filter.
Add your filter name, define the rules, and create a folder for your filtered emails.
Save your changes.









Now imagine you have different email accounts. Some of them are on Gmail, while others are on Yahoo or other email providers. 
Should you go through all these steps again and again? You shouldn’t! 
You can spend much less time on this tedious task by using the Mailbird email client.
After importing your accounts into Mailbird, which can be done in seconds, you can set up one universal filter. This filter will manage your preferences for all of your email accounts at once.


By marking an unwanted email as spam, you help email services detect spam better. The more spam reports they get from users, the more chances that the next malicious email you get will eventually be sent to a spam folder, not your inbox. 
Marking spam differs depending on the email service you use. Here are some tips on how to stop getting spam emails in Gmail, Yahoo, and Outlook.







How to mark spam emails in Gmail






Select one or more emails in your Gmail inbox, and then click Report spam.















How to mark spam emails in Yahoo






To mark spam emails in your Yahoo inbox, select the message and click More, then Report Spam.















How to mark spam emails in Outlook






To mark spam emails in Outlook, choose the messages you think are spam. Then, at the top of the screen, select Spam. Now your chosen messages have ended up in a spam folder.










Eliminating spam from your inbox would take quite a lot of time if you decided to do it all on your own. Thankfully, there are many great tools to support you in this process. Here is what we suggest using. 

Mailbird is an email client created to comfortably manage multiple email accounts from different email providers, all from one easily accessible place.
Here are some ideas for how to stop getting spam emails with Mailbird. 

You can organize multiple inboxes that serve different goals (e.g., a newsletter inbox, one for transactional emails, and another specific to your core business) and manage them in a single interface. 
With Mailbird’s Unsubscribe button, you can easily get rid of unwanted emails, even if you can’t locate an “unsubscribe” hyperlink in the email’s body.
You can set up filters for unified accounts. Normally, you would have to set up filters and conditions for every inbox separately. With Mailbird, you can do it for all your accounts together at once. This way, you save lots of time and reduce manual work on spam management. Mailbird integrates with Unroll.me, another helpful tool for spam management you should consider using.


Unroll.me helps you unsubscribe from multiple newsletters at once. This service also combines emails you prefer to keep receiving into one newsletter digest — a Rollup. 
This service is free of charge, but keep in mind that, to keep it free for its users, NielsenIQ (which owns Unroll.me) scrapes data in your commercial emails. Later, the collected information is most likely sold to advertisers.
After you sign up for Unroll.me, the tool looks for all email subscriptions you have signed up for. Next, a list of those subscriptions will be displayed, and you will have options to unsubscribe, keep the emails in your inbox, or add them to your Rollup. 
This tool’s strong side is organizing your marketing emails. However, it doesn’t offer an easy way to set up email filters, as Mailbird does.

With SpamTitan, you can eliminate viruses, malware, phishing, spoofing, ransomware, and links to malicious websites. 
This tool allows you to block the majority of the spam emails you receive. You can install this software for both Mac and Windows.  This is a preventative tool that is a better option than having to remove a virus from a Mac or Windows computer.
So, what tool should you choose in the end? Consider using Mailbird together with Unroll.me, as they complement each other in their functions. They will help you eliminate most useless marketing emails. To get rid of spoofing, scam emails, or messages containing malicious links, use SpamTitan.

So, you have read and applied all the tips on how to stop getting spam emails and think you can do even more to secure your inbox? Here you go! We have prepared some additional tips that will help you secure your inbox from spam even more.

Reputable companies must stick to legal requirements regarding privacy, as this aspect is highly regulated. That’s why a legit business always carries a higher risk of getting in trouble with the law by sending emails to people who haven’t given consent to be contacted. 
Whenever you leave your email details with a company, always examine its website first. Ask yourself whether it seems reputable and legit.
If you have any doubts, look for the terms and conditions or privacy page to check how a given provider or service uses information about you. 
Couldn’t spot it? 
It’s time to leave the website before your email address gets sold to other companies and becomes a target in a massive spam attack.

Have you thought about how spammers get your email address if you haven’t shared it with them directly? 
There is only one answer — your email has leaked online and is still there. You have probably shared it on some websites, forums, chats, or social media networks. 
Once you left it there, spammers were able to fetch it using web-scraping tools. 
No matter how hard you try to eliminate spam emails from your mailbox, there is a chance you will continue receiving spam if your email address can be found openly online.
To close the door on spammers attacking you this way, check the places on the Internet where you have left your email address and delete it from there. 

Once you have done so much work to make your inbox clean, imagine how disappointing it would be to see it getting messy again. 
If you decide to use one email account for all purposes — personal, business, and newsletters — this bad scenario is almost unavoidable. One new newsletter sign-up is enough to see dozens of emails appear in your mailbox again every month, even if you only subscribe to the important ones.
It’s always better to separate your most important messages from educational or promotional ones by creating different email addresses for different purposes.
For example, you can call a new email address newsletters@yourdomain.com, either by setting up an alias on your account or using a free email service like Gmail or Yahoo. 

If you were to take just one strategy on how to stop receiving spam emails out of this article, let it be this one — stay consistent in your actions when working on eliminating spam. 
Remember that your strategy should include not only one-off activities, like unsubscribing from marketing emails, but also establishing healthy email management habits. They will help prevent future spam from getting into your mailbox.
You can lead productive conversations without too many emails, rid yourself of the fear of missing out on those conversations, and avoid checking your inbox again and again.
Getting rid of spam is just the first step to achieving a Zen state with your inbox, but remember that a journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
Hopefully, with the tips we have shared on spam management, this first step will be much easier to make. Using Mailbird as a professional tool will take you there quicker.




Get Mailbird, the best email client for business that supports all email providers and helps manage multiple email accounts
Try Mailbird for Free



Why do I suddenly receive a lot of spam emails?
Spammers usually buy huge email lists, and yours could have ended up on one. As they often acquire email lists from a single source, you are likely being bombarded by multiple spammers at the same time.
If you receive too much spam, you have probably fallen victim to an email harvester — you could have entered your email in a field that looked safe but was actually collecting email addresses to sell to spammers.

How do I spot spam emails?
You have to apply different techniques to spot spam messages, depending on the email type. Here are the main three:
Marketing subscriptions. Spot marketing emails that don’t bring any value for you anymore. Ask yourself this question — would you be willing to click the unsubscribe button?
Outreach emails. Spot emails that ask you to buy something and are not relevant to your business. 
Phishing and scams. Look for the indicators, such as urgency to take action, asking you to click some links, or suspicious attachments.

Will spam emails eventually stop?
Yes, you can put a stop to spam emails. However, ceasing spam doesn’t end at cleaning your inbox by unsubscribing from unwanted messages. To get rid of spam once and forever, you have to be more proactive and establish the right habits related to email subscriptions. 
Don’t subscribe to too many email subscriptions; choose only the most important ones. Use different inboxes to process newsletters, transactional emails, and business communication.

Why am I still getting emails from blocked senders?
There are a few fundamental reasons for receiving emails from blocked senders. Perhaps a sender has changed their email address to a similar one and is now attacking you from a different outbox. 
Alternatively, a sender can hide their real email address in a message’s header. In this case, if after checking a header you notice you are targeted from a different address than the one you blocked before, it’s worth blocking the new sender as well.











Spam Email Getting to You? How to Make Your Account More Spam-Proof That pesky spam email always finds a way to your inbox, even if it’s a work account. Your personal email account fills with newsletters and promo materials every day. How…Top Methods to Avoid Typing www.gmail.com for Faster Gmail Access In 2020, every day, almost 3oo,ooo people search for www.gmail.com on Google to access their Gmail account. According to research, the average speed for typing on a computer keyboard is…How to Block Emails: A Concise Guide to Blocking Unwanted Emails in Gmail, Outlook, and Yahoo Online stores and e-commerce websites are notorious for sending emails about the “hottest deals” of the week and “best offers” they shouldn’t miss. And knowing how to block emails might… 






  




December 8, 2020 at 12:41 am 


Gord Favelle says: 



So, it is the end of 2020 (thank goodness!) and still no native spam/email blocker? Why not!

Reply  
  




February 25, 2021 at 7:28 pm 


Andrew @ Mailbird says: 



Hello, I am afraid spam filtering is not on our roadmap at the moment.

Reply  


  




December 9, 2018 at 1:06 am 


Janus says: 



It would be nice with a tool to bounce the emails just like Incredimail just with a clean mail program like mailbird.

Reply  
  




November 21, 2017 at 6:16 am 


guest says: 



How do I setup filters in Mailbird?

Reply  
  




November 21, 2017 at 9:47 am 


Christin Baumgarten says: 



Hi , thanks for reaching out. Mailbird does not haver filters yet. Alternatively you can set up the filters in your web based account and they will be applied to your Mailbird Inbox. Please let us know should there be anything else we can help you with.

Reply  


  




November 2, 2017 at 6:26 pm 


Jane Hannah Ruppe says: 



Out of frustration even though I paid for Mailbird, I am abandoning it because it’s still impossible after months to block email addresses. Goodbye, Mailbird! You lost an otherwise satisified customer.

Reply  
  




August 15, 2017 at 8:31 pm 


Peter Barton says: 



Like everyone else I like Mailbird BUT find its lack of a SPAM FILTER means I like many others will leave it soon for better suppliers SHAME !!

Reply  
  




August 16, 2017 at 12:45 pm 


Christin Baumgarten says: 



Hey Peter, thanks for your feedback. Spam filters will come later down the road for sure. In the meantime many of our users are setting them up in their web account as they will be applied to the emails coming in to their Mailbird inbox.

Reply  
  




September 28, 2017 at 10:03 pm 


Burak F. KILIÇASLAN says: 



Please implement native SPAM filter as soon as possible as this is a big issue.

Reply  
  




September 29, 2017 at 3:19 pm 


Christin Baumgarten says: 



Thanks for your feedback Burak. Please feel free to add it to our request form using the link below. https://support.getmailbird.com/hc/en-us/requests/new
Thanks:-)

Reply  






  




August 8, 2017 at 1:07 am 


Jeffrey Kaplan says: 



I’m looking for a replacement to Thunderbird. If I read the above correctly, it looks like Mailbird does NOT actually have spam filtering. Am I correct that Mailbird does not classify spam vs legit on its own, and adapt by training? Please tell me I’m wrong…

Reply  
  




August 8, 2017 at 10:23 am 


Christin Baumgarten says: 



Hallo Jeffrey, thanks for reaching out. Yes, at this moment Mailbird does not have native spam filtering in place. Our users alternatively set them up in their web based accounts as they will be applied to the incoming mails in Mailbird. Let me know if you have any more questions:-)

Reply  


  




July 19, 2017 at 12:02 am 


Peter Robinson says: 



I am rather surprised that Mailbird does not seem to have a ‘blocked senders’ feature. Surely it’s not rocket science to build such a thing in. I’m also a bit bemused that the Mailbird tips page advises people to paste spam addresses into the blocked senders list (supposedly found in the Settings) when it doesn’t have one itself.
Otherwise I quite like the prog. 
ps. Can I have message filtering as well. 🙂

Reply  
  




June 12, 2017 at 5:03 am 


lilithwhyte says: 



Mailbird’s full version spam blocking is a big disappointment. I frequently receive mail from blocked addresses.

Reply  
  




June 12, 2017 at 1:23 pm 


Christin Baumgarten says: 



Hey Lili, Mailbird doesn’t have a native spam filter. The best way to set up a spam filter is to set them in your webmail account. They will then be synced with your Mailbird. Let us know if you have any more questions.

Reply  
  




May 21, 2020 at 1:21 am 


Rob Charny says: 



I have to agree with the others in that Mailbird has the worst spam tools of any email client I have used. Even outlook does a better job, and I dislike outlook. I love Mailbird, hate the lack of spam tools. I was hoping that your new tools might have added a better spam filter, but I see my hopes are dashed.

Reply  
  




May 21, 2020 at 10:17 pm 


Andrew @ Mailbird says: 



Hello Rob,
Mailbird does not have a native spam filter at the moment I am afraid, please accept our apologies for any inconvenience this may cause.

Reply  
  

 


June 24, 2020 at 3:34 am 


Byl Bobagginz says: 



So why, on this page do you guys say:
Set Up Spam Filters
Most email programs allow you to set up “different inboxes”. More or less, it gives you the ability to separate email by importance or sender. This allows you to mark the most time-sensitive emails and receive them all in one place–without the extra clutter of spam.
These filters are created using keywords. Compiling a comprehensive list is easy. Take a look at the spam email you currently receive and scan it for common or recurring keywords. Enter those phrases and terms into the filter, save, and you’re all set. These emails will no longer arrive in your inbox! In addition to reducing spam, this technique also organizes your emails in a very accessible manner. You’ll never miss a bill again!
misleading..

  








  

 


June 11, 2017 at 4:33 am 


honkycracker says: 



Not happy. I have the full version. Bought and paid for and I cannot block spam from the same sender. There is no blocked senders list. Why can I “mark as spam” if that has zero effect? No one likes being spammed OR scammed.

Reply  
  

 


June 12, 2017 at 2:12 pm 


Christin Baumgarten says: 



Thanks for reaching out. Mailbird notifies the server to mark the email as spam.
I the server does not support it it will have no effect, that is true. But gmail for instance supports it. The best way to make sure you have unwanted mail filtered is to mark them as spam in your web mail account. Please let us know if there is anything else we can help you with. Have a great week:-)

Reply  


  

 


February 3, 2017 at 3:29 am 


Bulc Club says: 



Hi Christin, Excellent collection of tips to prevent spam. 
You recommend people set-up “junk” email addresses for online services. This is the heart of our free service, Bulc Club, which allows you to create unlimited forwarding email addresses that protect member inboxes. If an online service sells one of these addresses, you disable it with the click of a button. 
Give it a try: http://www.bulc.club

Reply  
  

 


January 20, 2017 at 7:37 am 


Niels Jenkins says: 



Thanks for sharing! My email has been filled with spam messages lately. It really pissed me off. I will have to try the tips. Thanks.

Reply  
  

 


January 20, 2017 at 2:10 pm 


Christin Baumgarten says: 



Thanks for the feedback Niels, we are glad you liked the post:-) Let us know how it is going for you:)

Reply  




Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.


Ask JackSpamMike and his wife are getting too much spam in their BT Internet mailboxes. What can they do to stop it?Jack SchofieldThu 18 Feb 2016 03.43 ESTLast modified on Tue 21 Feb 2017 12.34 EST
My wife and I have never received more than three or four spam emails each week for over two decades. Recently we started getting large volumes of spam. We are with BT but tend to use eM Client for our emails using the IMAP system. eM Client can dump these into Junk and blacklist the domain, but this does not stop the spam emails, which are now five a day at least. Neither BT nor eM Client nor Sophos (our anti-virus company) have any ideas about how to stop this happening, other than to get a new email address. Do we just have to live with it? Mike
The short answer is that you just have to live with it. However, different email services have different levels of spam blocking, so you would probably see less spam if you got a new email address. First, your new address would not be on any of the mailing lists used by spammers – at least for a while. Second, you could use a service that blocks more spam, such as Google’s Gmail or Microsoft’s Outlook.com (aka Hotmail/Live mail).You are using a btinternet.com email address, so I presume that your emails are actually being handled by Yahoo. In my experience, Yahoo’s blocking is less aggressive than either Gmail or Outlook.com, so you would probably benefit by switching.The drawback is that these email services also tend to put more legitimate emails in their junk folders. Sometimes my Gmail and Outlook.com spam boxes have more legitimate emails than spam.It’s not hard to switch to a Gmail address, because it can retrieve emails from your BT address, and you can use Gmail to send emails from or on behalf of your BT address.Once you have set up a Gmail account, click the cogwheel on the top right, select Settings, and go to the “Forwarding and POP/IMAP” page to set “Enable IMAP”. Remember to click “Save Changes” at the bottom of the page.Next, click “Accounts and Import”. The second option on this page is “Import mail and contacts”, which allows you to “Import from Yahoo!, Hotmail, AOL, or other webmail or POP3 accounts.” You will obviously have to give Gmail your email address and password so that it can fetch your old emails. (Outlook.com has similar features.)The next option is “Send mail as”, which enables Gmail to send emails from your old email address. You can elect to “reply from the same address to which the message was sent” but I’d recommend setting Gmail as the default address. This will encourage your contacts to use the Gmail address rather than your old BT Internet address.Sorry to say, I’m not sure how eM Client will handle this. I looked through all the eM Client options without finding a way to set a different email address. I also used eM Client to send a test email, but it sent it using my Gmail address, not the default email address I use on Gmail (which uses my own domain name, not gmail.com). However, you can always select an email address when you write an email in eM Client.Note that if you use an email program instead of the web interface, BT Yahoo mail will not download the contents of your spam folder by default. This will prevent you from seeing any legitimate emails that have been blocked. See Using BT Yahoo’s anti-spam features for details.You can also tell an email service to forward all your emails to a different inbox – in your case, from BT Internet to Gmail, for example. Spam emails are generally not forwarded.Incidentally, Google has just announced a new smartphone feature called Gmailify, which lets you Gmailify a “Yahoo! Mail or Hotmail/Outlook.com” account. Your linked account will then get Gmail’s spam-blocking without you opening a Gmail account. Presumably, Gmailify is aimed at people who have limited technical abilities. I think it would be better to open a Gmail account and add your old account as described above, but if that sounds too hard, maybe Gmailify is the answer.The secret to keeping your email inbox mostly spam free is not to tell anyone about it. This is impractical, but you can at least give your address to as few people as possible. In particular, don’t post it online where it can be harvested by would-be spammers. Also, don’t forward things like chain letters or cute pictures of furry animals: if you do, you could be sending your email address to hundreds of people you don’t know.Avoid opening spam emails, don’t allow spam emails to load pictures, and never click on links in spam emails. Emails can include web beacons, web bugs or tracking pixels that tell the spammer you have accessed an email and therefore that your account is a live one. More spam will follow.In Gmail, you can tick the box next to an email and then click the Spam button in the toolbar to get rid of spam without opening it. This also helps Gmail to identify the same sort of spam sent to other people, which is why you should never mark legitimate newsletters as spam.Don’t give your email address to companies you don’t trust. And when you do give it to companies, make sure you are not opting in to marketing emails, newsletters and other bumf.Some people set up separate mailboxes for newsletters and marketing emails, but reputable companies almost always provide a simple way to unsubscribe if you change your mind.You can use another Gmail feature to provide one or more customised addresses. For example, if your email address is fredbloggs@gmail.com, you can give someone an address such as fredbloggs+spam@gmail.com or fredbloggs+list@gmail.com. Gmail ignores anything after the plus sign and delivers these emails to your inbox as normal. However, you can set up filters to divert or delete them.You could even use a different +based email address for each company, so you’ll know if one of them sells your email address. But I think this is more trouble than it’s worth.As things stand, the better email service providers, including Google and Microsoft, are doing the bulk of the work in blocking spam, and they stop the vast majority from even reaching your spam box. There’s very little that an individual can do to improve on that, beyond the simple measures described above.It’s best to accept that some spam will always get through, but if you’re only getting five a day, it’s not worth worrying about. Just delete them and concentrate on the more important things in life.Have you got another question for Jack? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.comTopicsSpamAsk JackEmailComputingInternetfeaturesReuse this content


From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia



Jump to navigation
Jump to search
Methods to prevent email spam
"Spam blacklist" redirects here. For Wikipedia's spam control mechanism, see Wikipedia:Spam blacklist.
Various anti-spam techniques are used to prevent email spam (unsolicited bulk email).
No technique is a complete solution to the spam problem, and each has trade-offs between incorrectly rejecting legitimate email (false positives) as opposed to not rejecting all spam email (false negatives) – and the associated costs in time, effort, and cost of wrongfully obstructing good mail.[1]
Anti-spam techniques can be broken into four broad categories: those that require actions by individuals, those that can be automated by email administrators, those that can be automated by email senders and those employed by researchers and law enforcement officials.



1 End-user techniques

1.1 Discretion
1.2 Address munging
1.3 Avoid responding to spam
1.4 Contact forms
1.5 Disable HTML in email
1.6 Disposable email addresses
1.7 Ham passwords
1.8 Reporting spam


2 Automated techniques for email administrators

2.1 Authentication
2.2 Challenge/response systems
2.3 Checksum-based filtering
2.4 Country-based filtering
2.5 DNS-based blacklists
2.6 URL filtering
2.7 Strict enforcement of RFC standards
2.8 Honeypots
2.9 Hybrid filtering
2.10 Outbound spam protection
2.11 PTR/reverse DNS checks
2.12 Rule-based filtering
2.13 SMTP callback verification
2.14 SMTP proxy
2.15 Spamtrapping
2.16 Statistical content filtering
2.17 Tarpits
2.18 Collateral damage


3 Automated techniques for email senders

3.1 Background checks on new users and customers
3.2 Confirmed opt-in for mailing lists
3.3 Egress spam filtering
3.4 Limit email backscatter
3.5 Port 25 blocking
3.6 Port 25 interception
3.7 Rate limiting
3.8 Spam report feedback loops
3.9 FROM field control
3.10 Strong AUP and TOS agreements


4 Legal measures
5 New solutions and ongoing research

5.1 Cost-based systems
5.2 Machine-learning-based systems
5.3 Other techniques
5.4 Research conferences


6 References
7 External links



There are a number of techniques that individuals can use to restrict the availability of their email addresses, with the goal of reducing their chance of receiving spam.


Sharing an email address only among a  limited group of correspondents is one way to limit the chance that the address will be "harvested" and targeted by spam. Similarly, when forwarding messages to a number of recipients who don't know one another, recipient addresses can be put in the  "bcc: field" so that each recipient does not get a list of the other recipients' email addresses.


Main article: Address munging
Email addresses posted on webpages, Usenet or chat rooms are vulnerable to e-mail address harvesting.[2] Address munging is the practice of disguising an e-mail address to prevent it from being automatically collected in this way, but still allow a human reader to reconstruct the original: an email address such as, "no-one@example.com", might be written as "no-one at example dot com", for instance. A related technique is to display all or part of the email address as an image, or as jumbled text with the order of characters restored using CSS.


A common piece of advice is to not to reply to spam messages[3] as spammers may simply regard responses as confirmation that an email address is valid. Similarly, many spam messages contain web links or addresses which the user is directed to follow to be removed from the spammer's mailing list – and these should be treated as dangerous. In any case, sender addresses are often forged in spam messages, so that responding to spam may result in failed deliveries – or may reach completely innocent third parties.


Businesses and individuals sometimes avoid publicising an email address by asking for contact to come via a "contact form" on a webpage – which then typically forwards the information via email. Such forms, however, are sometimes inconvenient to users, as they are not able to use their preferred email client, risk entering a faulty reply address, and are typically not notified about delivery problems. Further, contact forms have the drawback that they require a website with the appropriate technology.
In some cases contact forms also send the message to the email address given by the user. This allows the contact form to be used for sending spam, which may incur email deliverability problems from the site once the spam is reported and the sending IP is blacklisted.


Main article: HTML email
Many modern mail programs incorporate web browser functionality, such as the display of HTML, URLs, and images.
Avoiding or disabling this feature does not help avoid spam. It may, however, be useful to avoid some problems if a user opens a spam message: offensive images, obfuscated hyperlinks, being tracked by web bugs,  being targeted by JavaScript or attacks upon security vulnerabilities in the HTML renderer. Mail clients which do not automatically download and display HTML, images or attachments have fewer risks, as do clients who have been configured to not display these by default.


Main article: Disposable email address
An email user may sometimes need to give an address to a site without complete assurance that the site owner will not use it for sending spam. One way to mitigate the risk is to provide a disposable email address — an address which the user can disable or abandon which forwards email to a real account. A number of services provide disposable address forwarding. Addresses can be manually disabled, can expire after a given time interval, or can expire after a certain number of messages have been forwarded.
Disposable email addresses can be used by users to track whether a site owner has disclosed an address, or had a security breach.[4]


Systems that use "ham passwords" ask unrecognised senders to include in their email a password that demonstrates that the email message is a "ham" (not spam) message. Typically the email address and ham password would be described on a web page, and the ham password would be included in the subject line of an email message (or appended to the "username" part of the email address using the "plus addressing" technique). Ham passwords are often combined with filtering systems which let through only those messages that have identified themselves as "ham".[5]


Main article: Spam reporting
Tracking down a spammer's ISP and reporting the offense can lead to the spammer's service being terminated[6] and criminal prosecution.[7]  Unfortunately, it can be difficult to track down the spammer, and while there are some online tools such as SpamCop and Network Abuse Clearinghouse to assist, they are not always accurate. Historically, reporting spam in this way has not played a large part in abating spam, since the spammers simply move their operation to another URL, ISP or network of IP addresses.
In many countries consumers may also forward unwanted and deceptive commercial email to the authorities, e.g. in the US to the email address (spam at uce.gov) maintained by the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC),[8] or similar agencies in other countries.[9]


There are now a large number of applications, appliances, services, and software systems that email administrators can use to reduce the load of spam on their systems and mailboxes. In general these attempt to reject (or "block"), the majority of spam email outright at the SMTP connection stage. If they do accept a message, they will typically then analyze the content further – and may decide to  "quarantine" any categorised as spam.


Further information: Email authentication, Sender Policy Framework, DKIM, and DMARC
A number of systems have been developed that allow domain name owners to identify email as authorized. Many of these systems use the DNS to list sites authorized to send email on their behalf. After many other proposals, SPF, DKIM and DMARC are all now widely supported with growing adoption.[10][11][12] While not directly attacking spam, these systems make it much harder to spoof addresses, a common technique of spammers - but also used in phishing, and other types of fraud via email.


Main article: Challenge-response spam filtering
A method which may be used by internet service providers, by specialized services or enterprises to combat spam is to require unknown senders to pass various tests before their messages are delivered. These strategies are termed "challenge/response systems".


Checksum-based filter exploits the fact that the messages are sent in bulk, that is that they will be identical with small variations. Checksum-based filters strip out everything that might vary between messages, reduce what remains to a checksum, and look that checksum up in a database such as the  Distributed Checksum Clearinghouse which collects the checksums of messages that email recipients consider to be spam (some people have a button on their email client which they can click to nominate a message as being spam); if the checksum is in the database, the message is likely to be spam. To avoid being detected in this way, spammers will sometimes insert unique invisible gibberish known as hashbusters into the middle of each of their messages, to make each message have a unique checksum.


Some email servers expect to never communicate with particular countries from which they receive a great deal of spam.  Therefore, they use country-based filtering – a technique that blocks email from certain countries.  This technique is based on country of origin determined by the sender's IP address rather than any trait of the sender.


Main article: DNSBL
There are large number of free and commercial DNS-based Blacklists, or DNSBLs which allow a mail server to quickly look up the IP of an incoming mail connection - and reject it if it is listed there. Administrators can choose from scores of DNSBLs, each of which reflects different policies: some list sites known to emit spam; others list open mail relays or proxies; others list ISPs known to support spam.


Main article: DNSBL § URI DNSBLs
Most spam/phishing messages contain an URL that they entice victims into clicking on.  Thus, a popular technique since the early 2000s consists of extracting URLs from messages and looking them up in databases such as Spamhaus' Domain Block List (DBL), SURBL, and URIBL.[13]


Further information: SMTP RFC standards
Many spammers use poorly written software or are unable to comply with the standards because they do not have legitimate control of the computer they are using to send spam (zombie computer).  By setting tighter limits on the deviation from RFC standards that the MTA will accept, a mail administrator can reduce spam significantly - but this also runs the risk of rejecting mail from older or poorly written or configured servers.
Greeting delay – A sending server is required to wait until it has received the SMTP greeting banner before it sends any data. A deliberate pause can be introduced by receiving servers to allow them to detect and deny any spam-sending applications that do not wait to receive this banner.
Temporary rejection – The greylisting technique is built on the fact that the SMTP protocol allows for temporary rejection of incoming messages. Greylisting temporarily rejects all messages from unknown senders or mail servers – using the standard 4xx error codes.[14] All compliant MTAs will proceed to retry delivery later, but many spammers and spambots will not. The downside is that all legitimate messages from first-time senders will experience a delay in delivery.
HELO/EHLO checking – RFC 5321 says that an SMTP server "MAY verify that the domain name argument in the EHLO command actually corresponds to the IP address of the client. However, if the verification fails, the server MUST NOT refuse to accept a message on that basis." Systems can, however, be configured to 

Refuse connections from hosts that give an invalid HELO – for example, a HELO that is not an FQDN or is an IP address not surrounded by square brackets.
Refusing connections from hosts that give an obviously fraudulent HELO
Refusing to accept email whose HELO/EHLO argument does not resolve in DNS
Invalid pipelining – Several SMTP commands are allowed to be placed in one network packet and "pipelined".  For example, if an email is sent with a CC: header, several SMTP "RCPT TO" commands might be placed in a single packet instead of one packet per "RCPT TO" command.  The SMTP protocol, however, requires that errors be checked and everything is synchronized at certain points.  Many spammers will send everything in a single packet since they do not care about errors and it is more efficient.  Some MTAs will detect this invalid pipelining and reject email sent this way.
Nolisting – The email servers for any given domain are specified in a prioritized list, via the MX records. The nolisting technique is simply the adding of an MX record pointing to a non-existent server as the "primary" (i.e. that with the lowest preference value) – which means that an initial mail contact will always fail. Many spam sources do not retry on failure, so the spammer will move on to the next victim; legitimate email servers should retry the next higher numbered MX, and normal email will be delivered with only a brief delay.
Quit detection – An SMTP connection should always be closed with a QUIT command. Many spammers skip this step because their spam has already been sent and taking the time to properly close the connection takes time and bandwidth. Some MTAs are capable of detecting whether or not the connection is closed correctly and use this as a measure of how trustworthy the other system is.


Main article: Honeypot (computing)
Another approach is simply creating an imitation MTA that gives the appearance of being an open mail relay, or an imitation TCP/IP proxy server that gives the appearance of being an open proxy. Spammers who probe systems for open relays and proxies will find such a host and attempt to send mail through it, wasting their time and resources, and potentially, revealing information about themselves and the origin of the spam they are sending to the entity that operates the honeypot. Such a system may simply discard the spam attempts, submit them to DNSBLs, or store them for analysis by the entity operating the honeypot that may enable identification of the spammer for blocking.


SpamAssassin, Policyd-weight and others use some or all of the various tests for spam, and assign a numerical score to each test.  Each message is scanned for these patterns, and the applicable scores tallied up. If the total is above a fixed value, the message is rejected or flagged as spam. By ensuring that no single spam test by itself can flag a message as spam, the false positive rate can be greatly reduced.


Outbound spam protection involves scanning email traffic as it exits a network, identifying spam messages and then taking an action such as blocking the message or shutting off the source of the traffic. While the primary impact of spam is on spam recipients, sending networks also experience financial costs, such as wasted bandwidth, and the risk of having their IP addresses blocked by receiving networks.
Outbound spam protection not only stops spam, but also lets system administrators track down spam sources on their network and remediate them – for example, clearing malware from machines which have become infected with a virus or are participating in a botnet.


Further information: Reverse DNS lookup and Forward-confirmed reverse DNS
The PTR DNS records in the reverse DNS can be used for a number of things, including:

Most email mail transfer agents (mail servers) use a forward-confirmed reverse DNS (FCrDNS) verification and if there is a valid domain name, put it into the "Received:" trace header field.
Some email mail transfer agents will perform FCrDNS verification on the domain name given in the SMTP HELO and EHLO commands. See #Strict enforcement of RFC standards § HELO/EHLO .
To check the domain names in the rDNS to see if they are likely from dial-up users, dynamically assigned addresses, or home-based broadband customers.  Since the vast majority of email that originates from these computers is spam, many mail servers also refuse email with missing or "generic" rDNS names.[15]
A Forward Confirmed reverse DNS verification can create a form of authentication that there is a valid relationship between the owner of a domain name and the owner of the network that has been given an IP address.  While reliant on the DNS infrastructure, which has known vulnerabilities, this authentication is strong enough that it can be used for whitelisting purposes because spammers and phishers cannot usually bypass this verification when they use zombie computers to forge the domains.

Further information: Email filtering
Content filtering techniques rely on the specification of lists of words or regular expressions disallowed in mail messages. Thus, if a site receives spam advertising "herbal Viagra", the administrator might place this phrase in the filter configuration. The mail server would then reject any message containing the phrase.
Header filtering looks at the header of the email which contains information about the origin, destination and content of the message. Although spammers will often spoof fields in the header in order to hide their identity, or to try to make the email look more legitimate than it is many of these spoofing methods can be detected, and any violation of the RFC 5322 standard on how the header is to be formed can also serve as a basis for rejecting the message.


Main article: callback verification
Since a large percentage of spam has forged and invalid sender ("from") addresses, some spam can be detected by checking that this "from" address is valid.  A mail server can try to verify the sender address by making an SMTP connection back to the mail exchanger for the address, as if it were creating a bounce, but stopping just before any email is sent.
Callback verification has various drawbacks:  (1) Since nearly all spam has forged return addresses, nearly all callbacks are to innocent third party mail servers that are unrelated to the spam; (2) When the spammer uses a trap address as his sender's address. If the receiving MTA tries to make the callback using the trap address in a MAIL FROM command, the receiving MTA's IP address will be blacklisted; (3) Finally, the standard VRFY and EXPN commands[16] used to verify an address have been so exploited by spammers that few mail administrators enable them, leaving the receiving SMTP server no effective way to validate the sender's email address.[17]


Main article: SMTP proxy
SMTP proxies allow combating spam in real time, combining sender's behavior controls, providing legitimate users immediate feedback, eliminating a need for quarantine.


Main article: Spamtrap
Spamtrapping is the seeding of an email address so that spammers can find it, but normal users can not. If the email address is used then the sender must be a spammer and they are black listed.
As an example, if the email address "spamtrap@example.org" is placed in the source HTML of a web site in a way that it isn't displayed on the web page, human visitors to the website would not see it. Spammers, on the other hand, use web page scrapers and bots to harvest email addresses from HTML source code - so they would find this address. When the spammer later sends to the address the spamtrap knows this is highly likely to be a spammer and can take appropriate action.


Main article: Bayesian spam filtering
Statistical, or Bayesian, filtering once set up requires no administrative maintenance per se: instead, users mark messages as spam or nonspam and the filtering software learns from these judgements. Thus, it is matched to the end user's needs, and as long as users consistently mark/tag the emails, can respond quickly to changes in spam content. Statistical filters typically also look at message headers, considering not just the content but also peculiarities of the transport mechanism of the email.
Software programs that implement statistical filtering include Bogofilter, DSPAM, SpamBayes, ASSP, CRM114, the email programs Mozilla and Mozilla Thunderbird, Mailwasher, and later revisions of SpamAssassin.


Main article: Tarpit (networking)
A tarpit is any server software which intentionally responds extremely slowly to client commands. By running a tarpit which treats acceptable mail normally and known spam slowly or which appears to be an open mail relay, a site can slow down the rate at which spammers can inject messages into the mail facility. Depending on the server and internet speed, a tarpit can slow an attack by a factor of around 500.[18] Many systems will simply disconnect if the server doesn't respond quickly, which will eliminate the spam.  However, a few legitimate email systems will also not deal correctly with these delays. The fundamental idea is to slow the attack so that the perpetrator has to waste time without any significant success.[19]
An organization can successfully deploy a tarpit if it is able to define the range of addresses, protocols, and ports for deception.[20] The process involves a router passing the supported traffic to the appropriate server while those sent by other contacts are sent to the tarpit.[20] Examples of tarpits include the Labrea tarpit, Honeyd,[21] SMTP tarpits, and IP-level tarpits.


Measures to protect against spam can cause collateral damage. This includes:

The measures may consume resources, both in the server and on the network.
When a mail server rejects legitimate messages, the sender needs to contact the recipient out of channel.
When legitimate messages are relegated to a spam folder, the sender is not notified of this.
If a recipient periodically checks his spam folder, that will cost him time and if there is a lot of spam it is easy to overlook the few legitimate messages.
Measures that imposes costs on a third party server may be considered to be abuse and result in deliverability problems.

There are a variety of techniques that email senders use to try to make sure that they do not send spam.  Failure to control the amount of spam sent, as judged by email receivers, can often cause even legitimate email to be blocked and for the sender to be put on DNSBLs.


Since spammer's accounts are frequently disabled due to violations of abuse policies, they are constantly trying to create new accounts.  Due to the damage done to an ISP's reputation when it is the source of spam, many ISPs and web email providers use CAPTCHAs on new accounts to verify that it is a real human registering the account, and not an automated spamming system.  They can also verify that credit cards are not stolen before accepting new customers, check the Spamhaus Project ROKSO list, and do other background checks.


Main article: Opt-in email
A malicious person can easily attempt to subscribe another user to a mailing list — to harass them, or to make the company or organisation appear to be spamming. To prevent this, all modern mailing list management programs (such as GNU Mailman, LISTSERV, Majordomo, and qmail's ezmlm) support "confirmed opt-in" by default. Whenever an email address is presented for subscription to the list, the software will send a confirmation message to that address. The confirmation message contains no advertising content, so it is not construed to be spam itself, and the address is not added to the live mail list unless the recipient responds to the confirmation message.


Main article: Egress filtering
Email senders typically now do the same type of anti-spam checks on email coming from their users and customers as for inward email coming from the rest of the Internet. This protects their reputation, which could otherwise be harmed in the case of infection by spam-sending malware.


Main article: Backscatter (email)
If a receiving server initially fully accepts an email, and only later determines that the message is spam or to a non-existent recipient, it will generate a bounce message back to the supposed sender. However, if (as is often the case with spam), the sender information on the incoming email was forged to be that of an unrelated third party then this bounce message is backscatter spam. For this reason it is generally preferable for most rejection of incoming email to happen during the SMTP connection stage, with a 5xx error code, while the sending server is still connected. In this case then the sending server will report the problem to the real sender cleanly.


Firewalls and routers can be programmed to not allow SMTP traffic (TCP port 25) from machines on the network that are not supposed to run Mail Transfer Agents or send email.[22]  This practice is somewhat controversial when ISPs block home users, especially if the ISPs do not allow the blocking to be turned off upon request.  Email can still be sent from these computers to designated smart hosts via port 25 and to other smart hosts via the email submission port 587.


Network address translation can be used to intercept all port 25 (SMTP) traffic and direct it to a mail server that enforces rate limiting and egress spam filtering.  This is commonly done in hotels,[23] but it can cause email privacy problems, as well making it impossible to use STARTTLS and SMTP-AUTH if the port 587 submission port isn't used.


Machines that suddenly start sending lots of email may well have become zombie computers.  By limiting the rate that email can be sent around what is typical for the computer in question, legitimate email can still be sent, but large spam runs can be slowed down until manual investigation can be done.[24]


Main article: Feedback Loop (email)
By monitoring spam reports from places such as spamcop, AOL's feedback loop, and Network Abuse Clearinghouse, the domain's abuse@ mailbox, etc., ISPs can often learn of problems before they seriously damage the ISP's reputation and have their mail servers blacklisted.


Both malicious software and human spam senders often use forged FROM addresses when sending spam messages. Control may be enforced on SMTP servers to ensure senders can only use their correct email address in the FROM field of outgoing messages. In an email users database each user has a record with an email address. The SMTP server must check if the email address in the FROM field of an outgoing message is the same address that belongs to the user's credentials, supplied for SMTP authentication. If the FROM field is forged, an SMTP error will be returned to the email client (e.g. "You do not own the email address you are trying to send from").


Most ISPs and webmail providers have either an Acceptable Use Policy (AUP) or a Terms of Service (TOS) agreement that discourages spammers from using their system and allows the spammer to be terminated quickly for violations.


See also: Email spam legislation by country
From 2000 onwards, many countries enacted specific legislation to criminalize spamming, and appropriate legislation and enforcement can have a significant impact on spamming activity.[25] Where legislation provides specific text that bulk emailers must include, this also makes "legitimate" bulk email easier to identify.
Increasingly, anti-spam efforts have led to co-ordination between law enforcement, researchers, major consumer financial service companies and Internet service providers in monitoring and tracking email spam, identity theft and phishing activities and gathering evidence for criminal cases.[26]
Analysis of the sites being spamvertised by a given piece of spam can often be followed up with domain registrars with good results.[27]


Several approaches have been proposed to improve the email system.


Main article: Cost-based anti-spam systems
Since spamming is facilitated by the fact that large volumes of email are very inexpensive to send, one proposed set of solutions would require that senders pay some cost in order to send email, making it prohibitively expensive for spammers. Anti-spam activist  Daniel Balsam attempts to make spamming less profitable by bringing lawsuits against spammers.[28]


Artificial intelligence techniques can be deployed for filtering spam emails, such as artificial neural networks algorithms and Bayesian filters. These methods use probabilistic methods to train the networks, such as examination of the concentration or frequency of words seen in the spam versus legitimate email contents.[29]


Channel email is a new proposal for sending email that attempts to distribute anti-spam activities by forcing verification (probably using bounce messages so back-scatter does not occur) when the first email is sent for new contacts.


Spam is the subject of several research conferences, including:

TREC



^ "10 Tips to Avoid Spam | Digital Security Guide | Safeonline.ng". Digital Security Guide | Safeonline.ng. 2016-09-07. Retrieved 2021-12-21.

^ Email Address Harvesting: How Spammers Reap What You Sow Archived April 24, 2006, at the Wayback Machine, Federal Trade Commission. URL accessed on 24 April 2006.

^ "Information Technology: Threats" Archived 2016-03-07 at the Wayback Machine, vermont.gov

^ Customers: TD Ameritrade failed to warn of breach Archived 2012-03-05 at the Wayback Machine

^ David A. Wheeler, (May 11, 2011) Countering Spam by Using Ham Passwords (Email Passwords) Archived 2012-02-04 at the Wayback Machine

^ This depends on provider's policy; for example: Go Daddy Legal Department. "Universal Terms of Service Agreement". GoDaddy.com. Archived from the original on 4 July 2014. Retrieved 5 September 2014. We do not tolerate the transmission of spam. We monitor all traffic to and from our web servers for indications of spamming and maintain a spam abuse complaint center to register allegations of spam abuse. Customers suspected to be using our products and services for the purpose of sending spam are fully investigated. If we determine there is a problem with spam, we will take the appropriate action to resolve the situation.

^ The latter depends on local law; for example: "Canada's Law on Spam and Other Electronic Threats". fightspam.gc.ca. Archived from the original on 10 September 2014. Retrieved 5 September 2014. Canada's anti-spam legislation (CASL) is in place to protect Canadians

^ "Spam" Archived 2013-12-17 at the Wayback Machine, OnGuardOnline.gov

^ "Anti-spam" Archived 2016-02-24 at the Wayback Machine, NZ Department of Internal Affairs

^ Butcher, Mike. DMARC Promises A World Of Less Phishing Archived 2017-06-26 at Wikiwix. Tech Crunch. Jan 30, 2012

^ Kerner, Sean Michael (2 January 2018). "DMARC Email Security Adoption Grows in U.S. Government". e-Week. Retrieved 20 December 2018.

^ Stilgherrian (18 December 2018). "Australian government lags UK in deploying DMARC email spoofing prevention". Retrieved 20 December 2018.

^ Jose Marcio Martins Da Cruz; John Levine (May 2009). "URL filtering". Anti-Spam Research Group wiki. Archived from the original on 8 December 2015. Retrieved 2 December 2015.

^ "4.XXX.XXX Persistent Transient Failure" Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine, IETF.org

^ "Frequently Asked Questions". The Spamhaus Project. Archived from the original on 2007-01-06.

^ "VRFY command—Verify whether a mailbox exists on the local host". IBM. 16 June 2017. Retrieved 19 December 2018.

^ "On the dubious merits of email verification services". www.spamhaus.org. Archived from the original on 2015-09-08.

^ Leonard, Clifton; Svidergol, Brian; Wright, Byron; Meloski, Vladimir (2016). Mastering Microsoft Exchange Server 2016. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons. p. 630. ISBN 9781119232056.

^ Provos, Niels; Holz, Thorsten (2007-07-16). Virtual Honeypots: From Botnet Tracking to Intrusion Detection. Pearson Education. ISBN 9780132702058.

^ a b Shimeall, Timothy; Spring, Jonathan (2013). Introduction to Information Security: A Strategic-Based Approach. Waltham, MA: Syngress. p. 74. ISBN 9781597499699.

^ Joshi, R. C.; Sardana, Anjali (2011). Honeypots: A New Paradigm to Information Security. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press. p. 252. ISBN 9781439869994.

^ "Shutting Down the Highway to Internet Hell". eWeek. 2005-04-08. Retrieved 2008-05-31.

^ Why can't I send mail from my hotel room? Archived 2006-01-10 at the Wayback Machine AskLeo!, December 2005

^ Rate Limiting as an Anti-Spam Tool eWeek, June 2004

^ "Two companies fined for breaching the Spam Act". ComputerWorld. June 22, 2007. Archived from the original on March 16, 2012.

^ Alleged Spam King Soloway Arrested Archived March 17, 2009, at the Wayback Machine May 31, 2007

^ "Results: 54,357 site shutdowns (67,095 pending)". KnujOn. Archived from the original on 17 May 2008. Retrieved 2008-05-23.

^ Paul Elias, (December 26, 2010). Man quits job, makes living suing e-mail spammers, archived from the original on December 27, 2010. Associated Press

^ Özgür, Levent; Güngör, Tunga; Gürgen, Fikret (2004). "Spam Mail Detection Using Artificial Neural Network and Bayesian Filter". Intelligent Data Engineering and Automated Learning – IDEAL 2004. Lecture Notes in Computer Science. 3177: 505–510. doi:10.1007/978-3-540-28651-6_74. ISBN 978-3-540-22881-3.



AOL's postmaster page describing the Anti-Spam Technical Alliance (ASTA) Proposal
Anti-Spam Research Group wiki, which was created by ASRG and is still alive
Anti spam info & resource page of the US Federal Trade Commission (FTC)
CAUBE.AU – Fight Spam in Australia, The Coalition Against Unsolicited Bulk Email, Australia
Composing abuse reports – what to send, how to send it, where to send it – and what not to send or do.
Computer Incident Advisory Committee's suggestions: E-Mail Spamming countermeasures: Detection and prevention of E-Mail spamming (Shawn Hernan, with James R. Cutler and David Harris)
Historical Development of Spam Fighting in Relation to Threat of Computer-Aware Criminals, and Public Safety by Neil Schwartzman.
Anti-Spam Guide, How to protect yourself from spam
Mail DDoS Attacks through Mail Non Delivery Messages and Backscatter
Spam Laws United States, European Union, and other countries' laws and pending legislation regarding unsolicited commercial email.
Secret to Stopping Spam An article about spam in Scientific American
vteUnsolicited digital communicationProtocolsEmail spam
Address munging
Bulk email software
Directory Harvest Attack
DNSBL
DNSWL
Email spoofing
Joe job
Pink contract
Spambot
Other
Auto dialer
Cold calling
Flyposting
Junk fax
Messaging
Mobile phone
Newsgroup
Robocall
Telemarketing
VoIP
Anti-spam
Disposable email address
Distributed Checksum Clearinghouse
Email authentication
List poisoning
Naive Bayes spam filtering
Network Abuse Clearinghouse
SORBS
SpamCop
Spamhaus
Spamdexing
Blog spam
Cloaking
Doorway page
Forum spam
Google bomb
Keyword stuffing
Link farm
Referrer spam
Scraper site
Social spam
Spam blogs
Sping
URL redirection
Internet fraud
Advance-fee fraud
Lottery scam
Make Money Fast
Phishing
Vishing

Authority control: National libraries 
Israel
United States





Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Anti-spam_techniques&oldid=1087608522"
Categories: SpammingSpam filteringAnti-spamHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksWebarchive template other archivesArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles with J9U identifiersArticles with LCCN identifiers







Personal tools


Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in





Namespaces


ArticleTalk





English









Views


ReadEditView history





More


























Navigation


Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact usDonate




Contribute


HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload file




Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationCite this pageWikidata item




Print/export


Download as PDFPrintable version




Languages


العربيةEspañolفارسیFrançaisՀայերենעבריתBahasa MelayuPolskiРусскийУкраїнська粵語中文
Edit links






 This page was last edited on 13 May 2022, at 13:41 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Mobile view
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement


Click here to return to Amazon Web Services homepage



Contact Us
 Support  
English 
My Account 




 Sign In


  Create an AWS Account 









Products
Solutions
Pricing
Documentation
Learn
Partner Network
AWS Marketplace
Customer Enablement
Events
Explore More 




















عربي
Bahasa Indonesia
Deutsch
English
Español
Français
Italiano
Português




Tiếng Việt
Türkçe
Ρусский
ไทย
日本語
한국어
中文 (简体)
中文 (繁體)






AWS Management Console
Account Settings
Billing & Cost Management
Security Credentials
AWS Personal Health Dashboard




Support Center
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview












Click here to return to Amazon Web Services homepage















 Products 
 Solutions 
 Pricing 
 Introduction to AWS 
 Getting Started 
 Documentation 
 Training and Certification 
 Developer Center 
 Customer Success 
 Partner Network 
 AWS Marketplace 
 Support 
 Log into Console 
 Download the Mobile App 









Last updated: 2021-10-26


Email spammers are using AWS infrastructure or resources to send me unsolicited emails. How do I avoid these spam emails in the future?



AWS doesn't allow the use of AWS infrastructure to send unsolicited mass emails (also known as "spam"), including, but not limited to, promotions, advertising, and solicitation. If you notice any violation of this policy, follow Amazon's abuse reporting process and help us stop or remedy the violation.
To avoid receiving spam, follow these best practices everywhere on the internet:

Be careful about who you provide your email address to. Spammers often obtain lists of emails legally because they purchase them from legitimate sources. When you sign up for a website or a service, be sure to read the website's privacy policy. The policy includes information on whether the owner of the website intends to sell information, such as your email address, to third parties.
Avoid publishing your email address in public pages or forums.  Spammers use bots to scrape public pages and forums for email addresses. Sharing your email address in these pages can make you a potential target for spammers.Tip: Many forums provide direct messaging tools to contact other users privately. If you want to provide your email address to other users of the forum, use these private messaging tools when available.
Avoid replying to phishing emails. Always verify the legitimacy of your email source. Avoid providing personal or sensitive information to unknown senders. You might receive phishing emails in many different forms. Sometimes, the spammers pretend to be from an institution, such as a bank, or pretend that you've won a contest. If you reply to these emails, the spammers recognize that the email address is valid and are likely to sell your email address to other spammers.
Use an email address that's hard to guess. Avoid using email addresses that include easy-to-guess names or phrases. Otherwise, spammers are more likely to guess your email address correctly and send you spam emails. Spammers use machine learning and other algorithms to guess possible valid email addresses. Also, avoid using your verbatim email address as a login for different websites.







How do I unsubscribe from AWS emails?
How do I report abuse of AWS resources?
How do I make sure that the email that I received is actually from Amazon?





Did this article help? 


  Submit feedback 



Do you need billing or technical support? 


  Contact AWS Support 














  Sign In to the Console 



What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
AWS Inclusion, Diversity & Equity
What Is DevOps?
What Is a Container?
What Is a Data Lake?
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases





Getting Started
Training and Certification
AWS Solutions Portfolio
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners





Developer Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS





Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
Knowledge Center
AWS re:Post
AWS Support Overview
Legal
AWS Careers







  Create an AWS Account 





 


 


 


 


 


 





         Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: 
         Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.









Language
عربي
Bahasa Indonesia
Deutsch
English
Español
Français
Italiano
Português
Tiếng Việt
Türkçe
Ρусский
ไทย
日本語
한국어
中文 (简体)
中文 (繁體)








Privacy
|
Site Terms
|
 Cookie Preferences 
|
© 2022, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.













 Ending Support for Internet Explorer
 Got it 


       AWS support for Internet Explorer ends on 07/31/2022. Supported browsers are Chrome, Firefox, Edge, and Safari. 
      Learn more »


Got it


The National Do Not Call Registry lets you limit the telemarketing calls you receive. Stop unwanted sales calls by registering your phone number:Online: Visit DoNotCall.govBy phone: Call 1-888-382-1222 or TTY: 1-866-290-4236If you register online, you will receive an email to complete your request. You must click on the link in that email within 72 hours in order for your registration to take effect. Visit DoNotCall.gov or call 1-888-382-1222 to verify the status of, or unsubscribe, your phone number on the registry.Placing your phone number on this national registry will stop telemarketing sales calls. But you might still receive calls from scammers and robocallers. Some telemarketing calls are still permitted. You may still receive phone calls  from:Political organizationsCharitiesTelephone surveyorsSome organizations with which you have a relationshipSome states have their own Do Not Call registries. Contact your state consumer protection office to find out if your state has its own Do Not Call list and how you can add yourself to it.You may file a complaint if your phone number has been on the national registry for 31 days. File a complaint online or at 1-888-382-1222. Include the date of the illegal call, phone number, and the company's name in your complaint. You can also file a complaint about recorded messages or robocalls.Visit the telemarketer website if you want to subscribe to the Do Not Call Registry. Representatives of telemarketing companies can also get information on compliance issues on the website.


Elena Timofeeva                                    

 

6 Nov. 2020




Share:

 
Facebook

Twitter



8 min read 
how to stop getting spam emailshow to stop spam emailsstop spam email 




 



They suggest suspicious 100% discounts, new Instagram followers, unshakable health, and a $500,000 inheritance from a relative you’ve never heard of. They are intrusive, annoying, harmful, and always unwanted.
How come we’re still getting bombarded with spam emails in 2020? And what can we do about it? Let’s find out where they come from and how to stop spam emails, once and for all.
Content:



Why you should always get rid of spam emails





Where do spam emails come from?





How to prevent spam emails





Create another email address





Help algorithms by reporting spam and indicating legit emails





Do not reveal your email address on social media





Find out who shares or sells your email address





Never interact with spam emails





How to stop getting spam emails and regain control of your inbox





How to deal with tons of promotional emails





How to protect your email address from spammers





Keep your own emails from being marked as spam






Spam and phishing emails account for 50–54% of global email traffic. The COVID-19 outbreak boosted scam activity — cybercriminals started to imitate pandemic-related notifications and offers. The largest share of spam (51%) in 2020 was recorded in April. Many inboxes are drowning in this stream of junk mail, and yours might be affected too.

But spam is much worse than just unsolicited emails. Your inbox becomes cramped and unmanageable. It is getting harder to navigate through the clutter; important emails can be lost in the abyss. For example, you may miss a notification from your bank or click on a malicious link by accident while searching for an old message from your colleague.
So, don’t let spam emails pile up — a potentially harmful habit in every way. After all, data storage is cheap, but all those extra terabytes of digital trash keep data centers running and misuse energy.

So-called bot-crawlers (email harvesters or spiders) scan web pages and gather contact data. They look for specific symbols, like “@,” or format, like “username1993[at]domain.com.” It doesn’t matter where exactly your address is placed — the bot will find it even in the footer of a page. This is one way for spam to infiltrate your inbox.
Another way is that a bot goes through all the possible combinations of letters and “guesses” your email address. This is more likely to happen if you have a unique corporate domain. There are also viruses that scan files on infected computers and extract personal information as well. Once your address has made it to one spammer database, it will spread across others.
Your email address can also be sold or simply shared. Although anti-spam laws prohibit operators of websites from direct harvesting or selling mailing lists, the specific rules lack clarity. As a result, many websites share your personal information with third-party service providers for “business purposes.” Next time, before signing up, open the website’s privacy policy or terms of service, and look for keywords like “affiliates,” “partners,” and “partner companies.” This way, you will find out exactly how your email address may be shared.

Here are some proven methods to nip all scammers’ attempts in the bud.

Business in the front, spam in the back. Use one address purely for communications with colleagues, partners, and organizations, while the other one address is for collecting promotional emails, offers, confirmation emails, and so on. The latter will be useful for registering and subscribing, online purchases. This method ensures that promo emails are separated from your business-related conversations.

Check your spam folder at least once a week. Anti-spam tools are not yet perfect, so even real emails end up there sometimes. Most anti-spam tools use machine learning to recognize spam. You help them learn when you mark spam as spam and indicate real emails sent to your spam folder by mistake.

…unless it’s necessary.
We all use social media and promo sites to communicate with friends and customers and attract attention to our work, so there is no point in keeping your contacts completely out of sight. But if there are other ways to reach out to you available, such as DMs on Instagram, you may want to only give your email address to a narrow circle of people.

Gmail allows you to receive email addressed to any variation of your email address following a plus sign following your user name. For example, username+website@gmail.com, where “website” is the name of whatever website you’re signing up for. It looks like this:

The text following your address will remind you where these emails are from originally. Unfortunately, not every website will recognize a plus sign as a valid character.

Do not respond, click any links, or open any content within an unsolicited email. Ideally, do not even open the email. They may contain a tracking pixel that will notify scammers that your address is both active and monitored. Luckily for us, most email clients block images in spam emails by default.
You can recognize spam at first glance: it comes from suspicious addresses, has tacky subject lines, and includes tons of superfluous exclamation marks.


Email clients have gotten smarter. In fact, in most cases, you don’t need a special spam blocker at all. Google claims that it is able to stop 99.9% of spam messages and mistakenly classify only 0.05% of incoming mail as spam, thanks to AI-based algorithms.
You may have noticed the technology still has some flaws: sometimes your important messages end up in this 0.05%. And sometimes commercial emails interrupt work-related conversations. There are filters, labels, and other settings that allow you to control and categorize the stream of emails you receive.
Gmail filters remain the most effective way of organizing your ever-sprawling Gmail inbox:

Open a message from a service or an online shop that is especially prolific in sending emails.
Click the three-dot icon in the toolbar and choose “Filter messages like these.”
Choose the keywords or any other criteria for this particular filter.
Create a special label for these messages, so that they won’t clutter your inbox, delete them right away, or save them from landing in the spam folder if you still want to read them.

Gmail suggests different options for dealing with abundant emails:

There is another three-dot icon in the header of any email. It offers you more options: you can block the sender, or report spam or phishing. By doing this, you’ll help algorithms detect spam more precisely.


Many brands have turned their email campaigns to full blast and send at least one email a day. While some people like to receive all the special offers, others prefer to limit the number of commercial emails they receive.
If you feel overwhelmed by the number of promo emails you get, remember the rule of thumb: it is not spam, so do not deal with it as if it were spam. By pressing “It’s spam,” you’re making it difficult for the brand to reach out to their customers. Because of your impatience, someone else may not receive an important notification or a nice discount from this website. Marketers spent time carefully writing their content — don’t make their efforts meaningless.
Just click “Unsubscribe” in the footer of any email to manage your subscription. In your Gmail inbox, you will find this button next to the sender’s address as well. It is always possible to unsubscribe even if you can’t sign in to the website anymore.

Did you know that adding an easy-to-find unsubscribe link to every commercial email is beneficial for marketers and brands? In our article, we explain why.

We’ve mentioned website crawlers that harvest emails — there are a few ways you can hide your email address from them. It’s called email obfuscation, and you can use it on your personal website.
For example, imagine you are a motion-designer and you have a portfolio website. You still want your potential clients to be able to reach out to you, but you don’t want to lose these valuable offers and connections in a pile of spam emails. The solution is to make your email address slightly less visible for bots.
The benefits of this process aren’t always noticeable because it’s becoming harder to outsmart all existing crawlers. But if there’s a real chance to minimize the number of spam emails, why not use it?
Here are some reliable ways to secure your email address without affecting the user experience:

Adding reCAPTCHA on a website. Thankfully, users do not need to look for cars and road signs on blurry pictures anymore. The new reCAPTCHA technology is just a clickable button confirming that a user is a real person. It loads in two seconds, so there is almost no delay.
Using contact forms. This is an elegant way to communicate with your users and customers and stop spam emails. The downside is that not everyone likes to fill out these forms, also usually it’s impossible for a user to check out the content of this form after it’s been sent.
JavaScript obfuscation. The method implies producing a clickable email link for users while obscuring the address from crawlers. In the source code seen by harvesters, the address is scrambled, encoded, or otherwise hidden. But this method can trip up an inexperienced user who doesn’t know Java.

Feedback forms and contact forms seem like the best choice: they are absolutely user-friendly and convenient, and there are plenty templates to choose from provided by different online form builders. Contact forms also make your personal website look much more professional, which is crucial for making a good first impression online.
And here are some outdated methods of email obfuscation you should avoid using:

Putting an email address on the picture and placing it in the footer. There are spambots that are able to convert image elements into text using optical character recognition. So, this approach just kills anyone’s desire to contact you because you have intentionally made it harder for them. Also, this method excludes users with vision impairment and anyone using a screenreader.
Spelling out an address. Don’t sacrifice your potential clients in order to stop spam emails. Bots can easily decipher “user name at domain dot com.” It will just make the contacts look messy and less readable.
Replacing @ with [at]. Email harvesters have been familiar with this trick for at least 10 years. More refined spambots can even search for alternative spellings such as “(at).” And regular users lose the convenience of clicking on the address to automatically send an email.
Creating an extremely long address containing different numbers. If you use emails to communicate with people, keep it user-friendly. No need to make it look like a password and make users guess what stays behind this elaborate address — it should be easy to spell and remember.


We are not doomed to get spam indefinitely. But algorithms are only striving for perfection, so there is still some room for improvement. Make sure your own emails do not fall into the same bottomless pit of spam.
Create your email campaign using SendPulse and let the built-in smart spam checker do the rest. This new tool analyzes your campaign and gives tips on which element to improve. It also warns if there is a probability that your email is destined for the spam folder. This checker is available in a free plan — give it a try!






 


 Elena Timofeeva


                                                Good writing makes my heart beat faster. So does a good conversion rate. In my free time, I obsessively learn...                                            





Date of publication:
6 Nov. 2020







Average Rating:            
5/5


Total Votes:            
31


 

Share:

 
Facebook

Twitter






 
 
Previous post


Competitor-Analysis Tools for Social Media and Content Marketing

  

 

Next post 


Step By Step Guide to Guest Posting On Quality Domains

  



how to stop getting spam emailshow to stop spam emailsstop spam email

Posts by category
Chatbots Email Marketing Landing Pages Marketing and Sales New Features and Updates Online Courses Useful Tools for Marketers 
 




Join our biweekly digest

 












Recent posts




 



                        Yana Barylo                    




 Hit and Sell: 15 Sales Chatbot Features that Can Step Up Your Sales Game
19 May. 2022







 



                        Olha Zubarieva                    




 Product Bundling Examples to Increase Your Revenue
17 May. 2022







 



                        Olha Zubarieva                    




 Top 5 Tips on How to Price an Online Course
13 May. 2022


DONATE 












A-Z Recycling Guide 












A-Z Recycling Guide 







 DONATE 





Play our new recycling sorting game »







 



HomeAbout UsAbout UsOur Unique ValueAnnual ReportsOur MissionAwardsBoard of DirectorsJobs and InternshipsVideosZero Waste Video SeriesDenver Video SeriesDenver Video Series in SpanishEco-Cycle SolutionsRecycle, Compost & ReuseSharing ResourcesGuidelines, Drop-Off Centers & MoreAbout Single-Stream RecyclingComposting 101Microbe Brew Soil TeaMaps to FacilitiesReuse in Boulder CountyFAQsCarton RecyclingIn Your CommunityAllensparkBoulderBoulder CountyErieJamestownLafayetteLongmontLouisvilleLyonsNederlandNiwotSuperiorWardCHaRM FacilityOverviewU-Fix-It ClinicMap to CHaRMWhat happens to your CHaRM materials?Why recycle electronicsCommercial HaulingCorporate SustainabilitySustainability ConsultingGreen Star Business NetworkSchools ProgramsOverviewBoulder County School Recycling and Environmental Education ProgramsGreen Star Schools® ProgramMeet our Green Star Schools®Zero Waste EventsZero WasteWhat is Zero WasteZero Waste in Boulder CountyZero Waste around the WorldZero Waste & Climate ChangeZero Waste SystemZero Waste GroupsZero Waste Creates JobsReports & ResearchAll reportsZero Waste to Landfill is NOT Zero WasteHow to manage leftover waste on the way to Zero WasteMicroplastics in CompostStop Trashing the ClimateWaste to Energy is NOT a Zero Waste SolutionRestaurant CompostingEco-Cycle GuideLatest editionSubscribe to our E-NewslettersPast IssuesStop Junk MailHow to Reduce Junk MailFAQs about Junk MailStop Telemarketing CallsHazardous WasteDiscard Paint, Automotive Fluids & MoreEco-Friendly Cleaners & AlternativesGet InvolvedSee all campaignsBe a Carbon FarmerZero Waste DenverZero Waste ColoradoOrganized Recycling and Trash Hauling in Lyons, ColoradoBe Straw Free CampaignReduce Your Plastic UseI Choose to Reuse campaignBe an Eco-Leader!Eco-Leader PortalEco-Living GuideMedia CenterContact Us

























	Go to the source of the flood of mailings and turn off the faucet! Remove your name from mailing lists at http://www.dmachoice.org. It can take up to 90 days for the flow to stop since many mailings are already in print or production.

Please note: there is now a small fee of $2 to unsubscribe through DMA Choice. 


	If you've ever filled out a product warranty card, purchased a new home or vehicle, supplied your credit information to a lending institution, or simply carried a credit card, you can be sure your name and address are being circulated among an array of credit card companies hungry for your business. Don't despair -- there is help. To eliminate credit card promotional mailings, call 1-888-567-8688 (that's 888-5OPT-OUT) or visit http://www.optoutprescreen.com. You will have the opportunity to choose either a five-year removal or a permanent removal. For your personal credit cards, ask the company to place you on their "in house" list that is not sold or traded to other companies.


	Go online to opt out of Dex. Once you've received a catalog in the mail that you don't want, call them to opt out. Oftentimes they're happy to take you off the list becuase it helps them save money by not printing unwanted catalogs.


	If you contribute once a year to a charitable organization, ask them to send you only one donation request per year. The American Institute on Philanthropy offers several tips on reducing junk mail and phone solicitations from charities at https://www.charitywatch.org/charitywatch-articles/seven-tips-for-reducing-unwanted-mail-and-phone-appeals/43


	If you've had it with companies sending you mailings or promo products you don't want, there is an option. First, look for any of the following phrases: return service requested, forwarding service requested, address service requested, or change service requested. If you find any of these phrases, write "refused, returned to sender" on the unopened envelope. Mail sent to "Resident," "Current Resident," or "Current Occupant" can be refused if it contains one of the above endorsements, or is sent First Class.  When you receive unsolicited promo products, you can mark the envelope “Return to Sender” and put it back in the mail.


	There are several smaller list brokers and direct marketing firms in the U.S. besides the DMA. You’ll recognize a lot of them on the list below. Just as you did with the DMA in step one, send or phone in all the variations of your name and address to the list brokers and direct marketing firms listed below. Start saving the labels of all the variations of the names and addresses, which come to your mailbox. Every variation, no matter how small (or comical), is another name on a list, which gets sold to literally thousands of businesses, so include all variations! If you prefer to go the snail mail route in removal, cut and paste actual mailing labels onto a sheet, make copies, add your signature beside each name variation on each sheet, and send them off to each of the 5 addresses below. Indicate the following: "Please remove my name and address from your mailing lists and do not rent, sell or trade my name or address."

Valpak 
	1 Valpak Ave. N.
	St. Petersburg, FL 33716
	1-727-399-3000

https://www.valpak.com/coupons/show/mailinglistsuppression

	Have the Valpak mailing label handy and fill in your information exactly as it is printed. If you like coupons but don’t want to receive all that mail, go to www.valpak.com to choose and print coupons by geographical location.

	 

Valassis Direct Mail, Inc. 
	Consumer Assistance
	PO Box 249
	Windsor , CT 06095
	1-800-437-0479, between 8:30 and 5:00 EST
	Unsubscribe from their RetailMeNot publication here: 
https://www.retailmenot.com/everyday/unsubscribe

	 

Epsilon Data Services
	Abacus Cooperative Databases
abacusoptout@epsilon.com
	Send an email with “remove” in the subject line and your full name, including middle initial, and address in the message. If you changed your address over the past six months, include your previous address as well.




		> Junk Mail and the Environment

		> 4 Tips to Stay Off Junk Mail Once You've Stopped it

		> FAQs about Junk Mail





Every day in the forest of northern Canada, majestic trees are cut to stumps—at a rate of 2 acres a minute, 24 hours a day—to produce junk mail and other paper products. These trees are not only critical in combating climate change by absorbing carbon from the earth’s atmosphere; they are also home to native peoples who watch helplessly as they lose everything they know to corporate paper company interests. Read more junk mail facts.

	 





Stopping junk mail is one thing—keeping it at bay can be an additional challenge. Here are 4 tips for keeping junk mail out of your mailbox.

Our #1, must-practice tip: Use the magic words “Please do not rent, sell, or trade my name or address”

These are the magic words you’ll want to use when you’re filling out forms such as warranty cards, subscriptions, raffles, customer information cards, credit card applications, memberships for an organization, or pretty much anytime you submit your name and address to anyone. Write them out next to your personal information, and repeat these words when making purchases over the phone or on the internet, and voilà, you’ll stay off mailing lists.

A note about warranties

Be advised that it is not necessary to fill out a warranty card to benefit from the warranty on your purchase. Warranty and registration cards are usually just a way to get consumer information from you which is then often sold to direct mailers. Read the fine print to see if you are required to return the card to validate the warranty.

Tip #2: Get on “in-house” credit card lists 

Contact your personal credit card companies and ask them to place your name and information on their “in-house” list that is not sold or traded to other companies. This will prevent more credit card offers from being mailed to your home.

Tip #3: Prevent charity solicitations  

If you contribute once a year to a charitable organization, ask them to send you only one donation request per year, or see if they can send you a paperless request via e-mail.

Tip #4: Watch out for contests and free offers

Their purpose is often to obtain your name for mailing lists or to sell you something. If you do sign up for one, be sure to use the magic words from tip #1. 

© Copyright 2011–2020 Eco-Cycle Inc. All Rights Reserved. Contact us to use this content.

Back to Top



	Email the Postmaster General's office in Washington to ask that they give us a choice not to be forced to receive bulk mailings and tell them you want better choices with your mail:pmgceo@usps.gov

	 





























		 



		 



		 



		 



		 



		 








Our helpline is open Monday–Friday from 9 am–5 pm. If you have Zero Waste questions, call 303-444-6634 or email recycle@ecocycle.org.
Our administrative offices remain closed to the public.
The Eco-Cycle/City of Boulder Center for Hard-to-Recycle Materials (CHaRM) is OPEN Mon-Sat, 9 am–5 pm
Eco-Cycle’s CHaRM is currently implementing COVID-19 protocols to ensure public safety. All visitors to the CHaRM will be required to:

Please wear a mask or face covering at all times while on-site unless you are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 (and our staff will do the same). Vaccinated individuals are required to wear their mask or face-covering while indoors.
Observe 6-foot distancing areas marked off around drop-off bins.
Unload your own vehicles (please bring help if needed, as our staff has been directed to maintain a 6-foot distance).

Visit the CHaRM webpage for a full list of accepted materials, as well as pricing. Contact charm@ecocycle.org for materials-related questions and for information regarding tours. Facility tours of CHaRM are currently OPEN.

>> Read our report: The State of Recycling in Colorado
>> Join our campaign: Zero Waste Denver
Outside of Boulder County? Our Eco-Cycle Solutions Hub has the tools you need to get your community moving toward Zero Waste. >> Get started


Sign Up for Alerts
 





Tweets by ecocycle 

	 




	The Zero Waste / Climate Change Connection:



	Play Does It Go, In the Bin?!?!, a recycling game for the whole family:



>> Watch more Eco-Cycle videos


		 







	 

	 

	 

	 

	 




 




      





http://www.seo.mavi1.org
http://www.mavi1.org
http://www.siyamiozkan.com.tr
http://www.mavideniz1.org
http://www.mavideniz.gen.tr
http://www.17search17.com
http://www.canakkaleruhu.org
http://www.vergimevzuati.org
http://www.finansaldenetci.com
http://www.securityweb.org
http://www.siyamiozkan.org
http://www.fatmaozkan.com
http://www.sgk.biz.tr
http://www.denetci.gen.tr
http://www.bagimsizdenetim.biz.tr
http://www.mevzuat.biz.tr
http://www.security.biz.tr
http://www.sorgulatr.com
http://www.kanunlar.biz
http://www.prsorgu.net
http://www.sirabul.com
http://www.emekliol.org
http://www.coklupagerank.com
http://www.coklupagerank.net
http://www.coklupagerank.org
http://www.prsorgu.org
http://www.scriptencode.com
http://www.sirabul.net
http://www.sirabul.org
http://www.sitenizanaliz.com
http://www.seoisko.com
http://www.seomavi.com
http://www.scriptencode.net
http://www.scriptencode.org






×

                Sorry your browser does not support inline frames.
Click here to open game in new tab


MAILWASHER FREEMAILWASHER PROMAILWASHER SERVERDOWNLOADMailWasher FreeMailWasher ProMailWasher ServerSUPPORTMailWasher FreeMailWasher ProMailWasher ServerWorks with all email accounts and email programsThe recycle bin ensures you never lose an important emailIntelligent spam tools do the work for youEliminate spam and viruses before they get to your pcEasy to use on your PC or MobileInspect every aspect of your email at the serverDOWNLOADMAILWASHER FREEFAQCUSTOMER CARE CENTREINTRODUCING MAILWASHER: The leader in spam filter software, and the easiest way to check and manage your e-mails before you download them to your computer.Over 8 million people use MailWasher as their spam filter! 
MailWasher is free to use and won’t ever expire. It works with Outlook, Outlook Express, Incredimail, Thunderbird, Windows Live Mail, GMail, Hotmail, Yahoo, EM Client and every other email program.
Use this powerful spam blocker software to effectively stop email spam. Discover the safe way to stop unwanted e-mails before they get to your computer.
No gimmicks here, it is so easy to set up and use that you’ll be managing your email like a pro in seconds.
 It can even be used as an effective privacy tool since spammers can’t tell if you’ve read your email in MailWasher.
I think you will find this to be the easiest, most effective way to manage your incoming e-mails and stop spam. You will be amazed at how quickly you will like using MailWasher.
Best regards
Nick Bolton - MailWasher.net and Firetrust Email Security.Simply enter your email address and find all the settings you need to get your email up and running, and it’s mobile friendly too so you can set yourself up on the go!GO NOW“
I'm a software professional specializing in, among other things, architecture, UI and design, and I must say I'm extremely impressed. It's very
rare to come across software that justifies all the superlatives on it's company's home page, but I must say that MailWasher Pro does so. It's a
pleasure to use, simple, intuitive, elegant, and effective. Whoever is responsible should be congratulated and receive worldclass recognition
for building a first class product that has a good chance, in my opinion of becoming the defacto world standard for anti-spam client software.
”
 SHUMEL PREISZLER“
I don't usually take time to comment on products, but this one deserves special note. I was spending
30 minutes a day creating new rules in Outlook until I tried your software... WOW... 3 minutes
(at the most) and I have a clean useful email box. You guys are a life saver...actually a time saver.
I just found 27 minutes a day, that's almost one full week a year that I no longer have to spend on spam.
”
 JOHN A MARGOLIS, Satisfied MailWasher Customer“
Thanks for your email & thanks for a really 1st class program. Spam & unwanted emails drove me
crazy for so long. From the very beginning your program was easy to install, easy to customise,
simple to add new friends & blacklist, superb filtering, pain free upgrading & great interaction
with Microsoft Outlook. You put the big name businesses to shame.
”
 C ROBBINS, Satisfied MailWasher Customer“
The new version is phenomenal. I don’ t know what you could do to make it more effective or easier to use.
I am amazed at the ease with which the Mailwasher Pro 2012 software installs and is almost
automatically configured. Please pass on my appreciate to the appropriate members of your team.
I am very pleased with the software as well as your customer service.
”
 PHIL JOHNSTON, Satisfied MailWasher CustomerCheck your email with MailWasher first. You’ll be safer with the knowledge of knowing what email is waiting for you on the server,
allowing you to quickly inspect and read your email and remove any unwanted messages quickly and easily.Delete e-mails before downloading them to your computer. You’ll be able to see who the email is from, the subject, the attachment and lots of other useful info.
This helps you to decide if you want to delete the email or keep it. A great way to stop viruses and spam or to just delete unnecessary emails.No flashy gimmicks, so easy to use that you won’t feel like you have to learn a whole new program. In fact it has the familiar look and feel of most other email programs.
It’s as easy as 1,2,3. Just check mail, mark for deletion/learning, then 'Wash' mail.Easily preview the messages in your email account to see what the sender has to say before downloading your email to your computer.
This ensures you won’t download any nasty emails to your computer. Additionally, spam is marked in a red color, and your good email is marked as a green color for quick analysis.Comprehensive anti-spam tools ranging from your personal friends list and blacklist, customizable filters, external blacklists and bayesian spam
filtering which quickly learns to distinguish your spam and good email.Add your friends email addresses to MailWasher and they will always be recognized. You can even hide your friends from the screen so the spam is easy to recognize.Effective filtering to automatically spot spam or profanities, plus it uses a customizable list of blacklisted e-mail senders and/or advanced custom filters to filter out potential spammer addresses and messages.This clever type of spam filtering learns which of your email is spam and which is not very quickly and accurately.If you accidentally delete an email, you can restore it back to your email account (Pro version only).Check mail at different intervals. Don’t check mail at certain times. Play a sound when an email arrives, or be notified visually. Email log. Comprehensive help documentation on this site.
This program is so simple to use, just leave it going and process your mail when you want to.We have clocked speeds of 25 email message per second. Pretty impressive if you ask us!There’s nothing worse than spam coming to your mobile device, so take control with MailWasher and banish that spam while on the go. It’s dead easy to use and very fast.
Download the version for your Android phone/tablet, iPhone, iPad or Windows Phone and sync your email accounts, friends lists and blacklists from MailWasher Pro to your mobile device.Learn more.Preview emails on the serverDelete emails at the serverEffective anti-spam toolsPOP3, IMAP, Hotmail, AOL, Gmail etcColored grid lines for easy readingReal-time spam flter serviceAuto delete spamSearch inboxAutomatic updatesCustomize interface1 EMAIL ADDRESSPreview emails on the serverDelete emails at the serverEffective anti-spam toolsPOP3, IMAP, Hotmail, AOL, Gmail etcColored grid lines for easy readingReal-time spam flter serviceAuto delete spamSearch inboxAutomatic updatesCustomize interfaceUSE MULITPLE EMAIL ADDRESSES RECYCLE BINFULL PREVIEW PANE7 DAYS A WEEK TECHNICAL SUPPORTSYNC TO MAILWASHER MOBILE• Use unlimited email addresses
• Get access/search the Recycle Bin
• The Preview Pane is fully available
• Access to Technical Support
• Sync to MailWasher MobileNOTE: MailWasher Free is fully featured as the Pro version for 10 days, thereafter you can upgrade to MailWasher Pro inside of MailWasher Free, or continue to use the Free version.There is no spy-ware contained in this program, we do not monitor your actions or email. When you register this program, we will not give your email address or personal details to anyone.CURRENT VERSION:
OPERATING SYSTEM:
RELEASE DATE:
PROTECTION AGAINST:7.12.57
Windows 7, 8, 10, 11, Vista and XP
October 2021
Spam, phishing emails, email viruses, unwanted newsletters, unwanted email.Copyright © Firetrust Ltd Established 2000


Official websites use .mass.gov
A .mass.gov website belongs to an official government organization in Massachusetts.







Secure websites use HTTPS certificate
A lock icon (
            


            ) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the official website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.









      Skip to main content
    




















State Organizations









Log In to...





Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state






Virtual Gateway 




Unemployment Online 




Child Support Enforcement 











Main navigation





Mass.gov








Search terms















Health & Social Services


Families & Children


Housing & Property


Transportation


Legal & Justice


Public Safety


Energy


Environment


Taxes


Unclaimed Property


Vital & Public Records


Voting





See all topics under 
                    Living
                  










Business Resources


Professional Licenses & Permits


Unemployment


Finding a Job


Taxes


Workers' Rights & Safety


Industry Regulations


For State Employees





See all topics under 
                    Working
                  










Early Childhood Education & Care


Elementary & Secondary Schools


Higher Education


Continuing Education


For Educators & Administrators





See all topics under 
                    Learning
                  










Parks & Recreation


Fishing & Hunting


Historic Sites


Arts


Family Fun


Travel Options


Seasonal Activities





See all topics under 
                    Visiting & Exploring
                  










Executive 


Constitutionals & Independents


Legislative


Judicial


Cities & Towns


State Offices & Courts A-Z





See all topics under 
                    Your Government
                  






COVID-19


















State Organizations









Log In to...





Top-requested sites to log in to services provided by the state






Virtual Gateway 




Unemployment Online 




Child Support Enforcement 



















Mass.gov








Search terms


















Legal & Justice


Laws & Regulations


Laws by Subject


Massachusetts law about...

Massachusetts law about spam and junk mail


This page is located more than 3 levels deep within a topic. Some page levels are currently hidden. Use this button to show and access all levels.













This page, Massachusetts law about spam and junk mail, is 
              offered by
            


Trial Court Law Libraries





Massachusetts Court System







A compilation of laws, regulations, cases, and web sources on spam and junk mail law.




Skip table of contents







Table of Contents 































15 USC §§ 7701 et seq. CAN-SPAM Act
Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act “establishes requirements for those who send commercial email, spells out penalties for spammers and companies whose products are advertised in spam if they violate the law, and gives consumers the right to ask emailers to stop spamming them."







16 CFR 316 Federal Trade Commission, CAN-SPAM rule
47 CFR 64.3100 Federal Communications Commission, Restrictions on unwanted mobile service commercial messages.







Commonwealth v. Kuvayev, Suffolk Sup. Ct. 05-1856-H, September 26, 2005
By sending numerous commercial emails to consumers, defendant violated the CAN-SPAM Act and the Massachusetts Consumer Protection Act and was ordered to pay $37 million in civil penalties.







The CAN-SPAM act: a compliance guide for business, Federal Trade Commission
Explains the requirements of the law and its penalties. Helpful question and answer section about complying with the Act. 
Consumer guide to stopping junk mail,  Mass. Office of Consumer Affairs
Suggests steps for reducing junk mail and ways to protect yourself against spam.
How to get removed from mailing lists and email spam lists, NoloArticle about how to stop getting unwanted junk mail and how to block spam emails.
How to recognize and report spam text messages, Federal Trade Commission Tips on how to identify spam text messages and ways to filter and report them.
Opt-out resources for unwanted junk mail, Privacy Rights Clearinghouse
Includes suggestions on how to cut down your junk mail.
Spam, Federal Trade Commission
Offers tips on how to reduce spam and report it.
Stopping unsolicited mail, phone calls, and email, Federal Trade Commission
Provides contact information for consumer reporting companies and other organizations that can help stop unsolicited mail and email.







Data security and privacy in Massachusetts, 3rd ed., MCLE, sections 7.5.1 to 7.5.3 (emails and CAN-SPAM Act).












Online


Law library locations and phone numbers

Library locations 



Reference librarians online

Chat with a law librarian 



Reference librarians via email
masslawlib@gmail.com










Last updated:

April 19, 2022











Massachusetts law about telemarketing 




See all "law about" topics 




Chat or text with a law librarian 




Document Delivery Service Request Form 

















Online


Law library locations and phone numbers

Library locations 



Reference librarians online

Chat with a law librarian 



Reference librarians via email
masslawlib@gmail.com












Massachusetts law about telemarketing 




See all "law about" topics 




Chat or text with a law librarian 




Document Delivery Service Request Form 















Did you find what you were looking for on this webpage?
            * required





Yes





No







              Do you have anything else to tell us?
            

              Please tell us what you were looking for.  * required


We will use this information to improve the site.








Do not include sensitive information, such as Social Security or bank account numbers.



                  Your feedback will not receive a response.
                  

This form only gathers feedback about the website.

 














  




Would you like to provide additional feedback to help improve Mass.gov?


 
 





Tell us more about your experience
How much do you agree with the following statements in the scale of 1, Strongly Disagree, to 5, Strongly Agree?




 Strongly Disagree
 Strongly Agree





This page is helpful.

 Strongly Disagree
 Strongly Agree




1 Strongly Disagree 


2 


3 


4 


5 Strongly Agree 
 
 

This page is easy to use.

 Strongly Disagree
 Strongly Agree




1 Strongly Disagree 


2 


3 3 


4 


5 Strongly Agree 
 
 

I am confident that I will find the information that I need.

 Strongly Disagree
 Strongly Agree




1 Strongly Disagree 


2 


3 


4 


5 Strongly Agree 
 
 

What did you come here to do today?



Are you using Mass.gov for professional or personal reasons?   * required






Personal





Professional






What other feedback do you have about Mass.gov? (Optional)



If we have additional questions about your feedback, can we contact you? If so, enter your email address below. (Optional)
Email



















If you would like to continue helping us improve Mass.gov, join our user panel to test new features for the site.

Join user panel 



















Follow Mass.gov on Facebook





Follow Mass.gov on Twitter





Follow Mass.gov on LinkedIn





Follow Mass.gov on Youtube





Follow Mass.gov on Instagram







© 2022 Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov® is a registered service mark of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Mass.gov Privacy Policy






Living


Working


Learning


Visiting & Exploring


Your Government




Site Policies


Public Records Requests








Feedback


How-To
			
 
				We show you how to stop spam and junk mail from getting into your inbox by using Mac Mail's own built-in filtering system, plus how to avoid being tricked into giving away your financial information.			



  

  

  

  

  

  
 


 

 By Martyn Casserly  

 Contributor,    Macworld Dec 1, 2016 12:00 pm PST 








 




 Email can be a wonderful thing. Hearing the notification sound from the Mail app and seeing that those tickets you ordered are on their way, relatives announcing there’s a new addition to the family, or a reminder from your partner to pick up some wine on the way home so you can attempt the things that cause the creation of new family members, can brighten any day.Sadly, of course, this isn’t always the case as spam can shatter your peaceful oasis with frightening alerts of stolen account details, entreatments from Nigerian royalty, or offers of miraculous growth potential in a number of anatomical areas. Thankfully Apple’s Mail app in OS X has a built-in spam/junk mail filter system that allows you to gain control of your inbox once more. Setting it up is easy and we’ll show you how in this tutorial.Related items:
Best Mac email clients
Email tips for Mac Mail 
How to set up Gmail on a Mac
How to set up Hotmail on a MacTo find the Junk Mail filter you’ll need to open up Mail then go to the menu bar at the top of the screen click Mail then select Preferences from the drop-down menu.


This opens up a new window containing all of the various settings for Mail. You’ll notice tabs along the top of the window, one of which is marked Junk Mail. Click this to see the Junk Mail filter options.At the top is the essential tick box marked ‘Enable junk mail filtering’, and the chances are that it’s already turned on by default. If that isn’t the case then be sure to click the box so that a tick appears.Beneath this are a number of other options that can tailor how the filtering system operates. These are broken into two main sections. The first is ‘When junk mail arrives’ and of the three settings available within we’d recommend choosing ‘Mark as junk mail, but leave it in my Inbox’.The advantage this has over the ‘Move it to my Junk mailbox’ option is that when Mail receives any missives that it thinks might be junk, but is unsure, it will show them in your inbox, marking them in brown to indicate their potentially hazardous nature. When you open these items you’ll see a message along the top of the email that states ‘Mail thinks this message is Junk Mail’ and a button on the right side marked ‘Not Junk’.If the mail is a valid one that you want to receive then click the button and Mail will learn to let these kind of items through in the future. Any emails that fit the classic spam mould will be filtered out automatically, saving you having to approve the process.The last option open to you is ‘Perform custom action (Click Advanced to configure)’ but as this involves setting up rules and conditions that can get quite complicated and actually risk you losing emails if you get things wrong, we’ll save that for another tutorial.The second section in Junk Mail settings is entitled ‘The following types of messages are exempt from Junk Mail filtering:’ and list three options which include when the sender is already in your contact list, had been sent email by you before, or uses your full name in the email. You can adjust these if you like, but we’ve found that leaving them all ticked is usually the best solution for most people. The same is true for the last two settings at the bottom of the box, the first of which should be ticked and the latter left alone.While Mail does a decent job of sorting the wheat from the chaff there will sometimes be items that creep into the wrong inbox. If you have a junk mail appear in your main inbox, and not marked in brown by Mail, then it’s easy to reclassify the offending article. Select the item then go to the row of icons at the top of the screen and click the thumbs-down button. This will mark the email as spam and move it directly into the Junk folder.It’s wise to check your Junk folder periodically to see if there have been any real emails accidentally filtered there. If you should discover such an event then select the email then go to the menu bar at the top of the screen and select Message>Move to>Inbox.Over time Mail should then do this automatically now that you’ve set a precedent.If you find that Mail’s filter is not enough for you then you could consider investing in a third-party option. One long-time favourite is 
C-Command SpamSieve which adds a Bayesian spam filtering system to Mac Mail alongside a massive list of rules for determining junk items. It can be a little tricky to set up in the first instance (as it requires you to create Rules in Mail), but there is a step-by-step process by 
C-Command in the SpamSieve manual.Filters and security settings are all well and good, but there is always going to be gaps in the system. True, this isn’t the end of the world, and you can manually move annoying emails without too much fuss, but there is a darker side to spam.Often spam emails are used to steal financial information or to deposit malware on your computer. If the worst happens and covert spam does make it to your Inbox then it’s very important that you apply some simple rules to protect against being tricked into giving up sensitive information about yourself or financial accounts.For example banks or online payment services such as Paypal will never email you saying your account details need to be updated, or there is a problem on your account, and then ask you to click a link that will take you to its site so you can enter your details.This is called a Spear phishing attack as is commonly used to steal data from unsuspecting victims. The emails will often feature the logos of the organisation, the same fonts, look quite convincing, and convey a sense of urgency, but don’t trust them. If you fear there might be a problem with your account then open your browser, go directly to the website and log in manually.Basically never click a link in a email that takes you to a login page.The other common attack is to send through a document or image file and ask you to open it. This could be from a friend, relative, or colleague and usually says something cryptic or enticing such as ‘You’ll never believe this image!’. Of course this could be a real email, but before clicking on anything just consider whether the person sending the item would write something like that or include unsolicited attachments? If you’re not sure then try sending them a quick message asking if they really did send the item. It’s a small inconvenience, but it could save you a lot of headaches.Yes it’s true that Macs are not as susceptible to malware and viruses as their PC counterparts, but they are not invulnerable. So stay safe and don’t make it easy for the naughty people. 

Note: When you purchase something after clicking links in our articles, we may earn a small commission. Read our affiliate link policy for more details. 
Related: 
Personal Software 







Macworld contributor Martyn has been involved with tech ever since the arrival of his ZX Spectrum back in the early 80s. He covers iOS, Android, Windows and macOS, writing tutorials, buying guides and reviews.

















									How to delete System storage on Mac								



									How to find & delete duplicate files on Mac								



									How to set up parental controls on a Mac


Your IP: Unknown · ISP: Unknown · Your Status: ProtectedUnprotectedUnknownNordVPN logoPricingFeaturesServersWhat Is a VPN?Download VPNBlogBusiness VPNGet NordVPNHelpLog inNordVPNOnline security and privacyNordPassPassword managementNordPass BusinessBusiness password solutionsNordLockerEncryption with cloud storagePricingFeaturesServersWhat Is a VPN?Download VPNBlogBusiness VPNHelpLog inNordVPNNordPassNordPass BusinessNordLockerGet NordVPN






Blog
⁄
How-To
⁄



Are you fed up with constant spam messages, robocalls, and junk mail? At best they're annoying — at worst they're dangerous, infecting your device with malware and viruses. So what is spam? And how can you prevent it?






Zen Bahar

May 08, 2022
·
3 min read








Facebook







Twitter







Copy link


















Before we discuss how to stop this practice, we need to get a definition of spam. What does spam mean and how does it work?The term refers to unsolicited messages (usually emails or SMSs) sent out en masse. When advertisers use spamming tactics, it can be annoying. But when hackers get involved, things get ugly.Billions of spam emails are sent every day. Whether it’s a “Sale Now On” or a “New Coronavirus Alert”, 94% of spams are contaminated with malware that could steal your details and crash your device. Fortunately, Gmail blocks more than 100 million phishing emails every single day, but most spam still manages to slip through the net. Phishing scams use spam as a delivery method, and their numbers grow every year.But how do spammers get your details? If you want to protect yourself against these unwanted messages, it's worth knowing what made you a target in the first place. Spammers need as many working email addresses or phone numbers as they can find. This is known as data harvesting or scraping.Here are 6 ways spammers get your email address or phone number: Your email address was sold: Some website owners strike deals with spammers to sell their customers’ email addresses. Any revenue made from you is then shared with the owner. You signed up for a “free” service: Some products or services are free of charge as long as you provide your email address. Services that offer things like daily quotes or stock alerts often use their subscribers as spam targets. It was stolen by a web spider: Spammers use programs called web spiders or harvest bots to find email addresses on websites. If your email address can be seen anywhere on the internet, they can find it. It was traded between spammers: Vast lists of email addresses and phone numbers are often traded between spammers, so your details could be in circulation for years. Your device was infected with a virus: Spammer viruses scan your computer's disk drives for email addresses. If you’re connected to a shared network (at work, for example), spammers may be able to intercept traffic between you and others to steal email addresses. Your details were leaked: In 2020, 280 million email addresses were leaked from a Microsoft database, and data breach trends aren't getting any better.But don’t despair — with the quick tips below, it's easy to protect your details and fight back against spam.Here are some things you can do to stop spam and protect your details to avoid getting spammed again: Report, don’t delete: Don’t just delete spam emails. Select them and report them as spam. Gmail has a Report Spam button in the toolbar. Reporting spam helps train filters to detect spam in the future, as well as helping your email client protect other users. Block, don’t unsubscribe: Select the spam email and block it. How you do this will differ depending on your email client. Sometimes, the ‘Unsubscribe’ link on a spam email is designed to take you to a site loaded with malware. Other times, the ‘Unsubscribe’ button is corrupt and will download malware, ransomware, and other malicious viruses onto your device, blessing you with a second avalanche of spam hell. Use a disposable email address: Tools like Blur and Spamex let you use disposable emails for signing up to websites, so you can keep your real one private. They even let you create instant virtual burner cards to pay for things online, so you don’t risk your main bank account details. Alternatively, use a seperate email address for casual signups like chat rooms, shopping, and streaming services. Hang up and call the company: Robocalls are obvious. But what if a spammer has spoofed the number of a real company, like a bank, and is asking you to confirm your card details to “investigate fraudulent activity”? The aim is to use imminent danger to pressure you into giving them your details, with little time to suspect them. Hang up immediately and call the bank's phone number yourself to make sure there isn’t a problem. Your bank will never ask for your card details over the phone. If the same number attempts to spam you with phone calls, block it in your phone settings.Want to read more like this?Get the latest news and tips from NordVPNYou've successfully subscribed to our newsletter!Email is invalidWe won't spam and you will always be able to unsubscribe


Also available in: 
Bahasa Indonesia,
Dansk,
Deutsch,
Español,
Français,
Italiano,
Norsk,
Polski,
Suomi,
Svenska,
‪한국어‬,
日本語
and other languages
.







Facebook







Twitter







Copy link











Zen Bahar


Verified author


Zen likes to use her cybersecurity knowledge to help protect the privacy and freedom of others, otherwise, you can find her playing with paints in her studio in London.











Next read







Next read
NordVPN for Android: release notes
Eglė Juodytė
·
May 16, 2022




























Trending articles












News
·
4 min read
Why are phishing attacks surging on LinkedIn?
Malcolm Higgins
·
Apr 22, 2022















News
·
2 min read
Is your own phone spam texting you?
Malcolm Higgins
·
Mar 31, 2022















News
·
3 min read
Could the Russia-Ukraine war be causing a drop in cybercrime?
Daniel Markuson
·
May 16, 2022















Service Updates
·
6 min read
NordVPN for Android: release notes
Eglė Juodytė
·
May 16, 2022













Download the NordVPN mobile app for iOS or Android.NordVPNAbout UsCareersVPN Free TrialVPN RoutersReviewsStudent DiscountRefer a FriendResearch LabVPN AppsWindowsmacOSLinuxAndroidiOS/iPhone/iPadChromeFirefoxEdgeEngageWhat Is a VPN?IP LookupWhat Is My IP?Social ResponsibilityCustomer StoriesPress AreaBecome a PartnerHelpSupport CenterTutorialsFAQPrivacy PolicyTerms of ServiceContact UsFollow usFacebookTwitterLinkedInYouTubeInstagramDiscoverNord SecurityNordLayerNordPassNordLocker© 2022 Nord Security. All Rights Reserved · support@nordvpn.com Bahasa Indonesia
Dansk
Deutsch
English
Español
Français
Italiano
Lietuvių
Nederlands
Norsk
Polski
Português
Português Brasileiro
Română
Suomi
Svenska
Türkçe
Русский
Українська
עברית‏
ไทย
‪한국어‬
‫العربية
日本語
简体中文
繁體中文
 © 2022 Nord Security. All Rights Reserved · support@nordvpn.comYour privacy is important for usWe use cookies to enable the proper functioning and security of our website, and help us to offer you the best possible user experience. If you agree, we’ll use cookies and data to:Understand your needsImprove our servicesDeliver personalised contentSave your preferencesAnalyse visitor interactionsYour consent is voluntary – you can always change you cookie settings here.Personalisation settings & cookiesWe use cookies to enable the proper functioning and security of our website, and help us to offer you the best possible user experience.Required to navigate our websiteAlways onRequired to navigate our websiteCookie nameDescriptionExpiration__cfduidUsed by the content delivery network, Cloudflare, to identify trusted web traffic.29 daysrc::cThis cookie is used to identify the difference between humans and bots.SessionPHPSESSIDPreserves user session state across page requests.SessioncsrfEnsures visitor browsing-security by preventing cross-site request forgery.30 daysOauth2_authentication_csrfEnsures visitor browsing-security by preventing cross-site request forgery during the OAuth 2.0 authentication and consent flow.30 daysoauth2_consent_csrfEnsures visitor browsing-security by preventing cross-site request forgery during the OAuth 2.0 authentication and consent flow.30 daysStore choices (e.g. language) between visitsStore choices (e.g. language) between visitsCookie nameDescriptionExpirationlocaleThe cookie determines the preferred language and country-setting of the visitor.1 yearcookieconsent_statusDetermines whether the visitor has accepted the cookie consent box.1 yearfontsCssCacheDetermines whether the visitor has cached fonts so the font would not be cached again upon re-entry.7 daysCurrentSessionRetrieving the traffic sources data (source, medium, campaign, term, content, date) of the different sessions.182 daysFirstSessionRetrieving the traffic sources data (source, medium, campaign, term, content, date) of the different sessions.182 daysReturningSessionRetrieving the traffic sources data (source, medium, campaign, term, content, date) of the different sessions.182 days_domainTest{timestamp}Determines websites domain value for cross-domain support.Sessionpopups_referrerUsed for popup management.7 dayspopups_session_durationUsed for popup management.7 dayspopups_session_pageviewsUsed for popup management.7 dayspopups_chainsUsed for popup management.7 dayspopups_chains_finishedUsed for popup management.7 daysbc.visitorTokenUsed by chat widget from Nanorep.Determines unique visitor ID used on the new reporting page to group queries performed by the same visitor.1 yearbc.visitor_tokenUsed by chat widget from Nanorep.Determines unique visitor ID used on the new reporting page to group queries performed by the same visitor.1 year3E6DB64AUsed by chat widget from Nanorep.Determines unique visitor ID used on the new reporting page to group queries performed by the same visitor.1 yearuUsed by chat widget from Nanorep.Determines unique visitor ID used on the new reporting page to group queries performed by the same visitor.1 yearsessionContains a session identifier that is used to remember the user’s agent and allows the system to re-authenticate users without credentials.30 daysCollect site usage information for future developmentCollect site usage information for future developmentCookie nameDescriptionExpiration_gaRegisters an ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website.2 years_gidRegisters an ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website.1 year_gatUsed by Google Analytics to throttle request rate.1 yearcollectUsed to send data to Google Analytics about the visitor's device and on-site behavior.Sessionpersonalization_idThe cookie allows the visitor to share content from the website onto their Twitter profile.2 years_gat_gtag_UA_42858496_11Used to throttle request rate.1 minuteclient_dimensionPrevent fire client_dimension event more than 1 time per session.SessionDeliver ads and track performance (third-party cookies)Deliver ads and track performance (third-party cookies)Cookie nameDescriptionExpiration_gcl_auUsed by Google AdSense for experimenting with advertisement efficiency across websites using their services.3 monthsPersonalisation settings & cookiesWe use cookies to enable the proper functioning and security of our website, and help us to offer you the best possible user experience.Required to navigate our websiteAlways onRequired to navigate our websiteCookie nameDescriptionExpiration__cfduidUsed by the content delivery network, Cloudflare, to identify trusted web traffic.29 daysrc::cThis cookie is used to identify the difference between humans and bots.SessionPHPSESSIDPreserves user session state across page requests.SessioncsrfEnsures visitor browsing-security by preventing cross-site request forgery.30 daysOauth2_authentication_csrfEnsures visitor browsing-security by preventing cross-site request forgery during the OAuth 2.0 authentication and consent flow.30 daysoauth2_consent_csrfEnsures visitor browsing-security by preventing cross-site request forgery during the OAuth 2.0 authentication and consent flow.30 daysStore choices (e.g. language) between visitsStore choices (e.g. language) between visitsCookie nameDescriptionExpirationlocaleThe cookie determines the preferred language and country-setting of the visitor.1 yearcookieconsent_statusDetermines whether the visitor has accepted the cookie consent box.1 yearfontsCssCacheDetermines whether the visitor has cached fonts so the font would not be cached again upon re-entry.7 daysCurrentSessionRetrieving the traffic sources data (source, medium, campaign, term, content, date) of the different sessions.182 daysFirstSessionRetrieving the traffic sources data (source, medium, campaign, term, content, date) of the different sessions.182 daysReturningSessionRetrieving the traffic sources data (source, medium, campaign, term, content, date) of the different sessions.182 days_domainTest{timestamp}Determines websites domain value for cross-domain support.Sessionpopups_referrerUsed for popup management.7 dayspopups_session_durationUsed for popup management.7 dayspopups_session_pageviewsUsed for popup management.7 dayspopups_chainsUsed for popup management.7 dayspopups_chains_finishedUsed for popup management.7 daysbc.visitorTokenUsed by chat widget from Nanorep.Determines unique visitor ID used on the new reporting page to group queries performed by the same visitor.1 yearbc.visitor_tokenUsed by chat widget from Nanorep.Determines unique visitor ID used on the new reporting page to group queries performed by the same visitor.1 year3E6DB64AUsed by chat widget from Nanorep.Determines unique visitor ID used on the new reporting page to group queries performed by the same visitor.1 yearuUsed by chat widget from Nanorep.Determines unique visitor ID used on the new reporting page to group queries performed by the same visitor.1 yearsessionContains a session identifier that is used to remember the user’s agent and allows the system to re-authenticate users without credentials.30 daysCollect site usage information for future developmentCollect site usage information for future developmentCookie nameDescriptionExpiration_gaRegisters an ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website.2 years_gidRegisters an ID that is used to generate statistical data on how the visitor uses the website.1 year_gatUsed by Google Analytics to throttle request rate.1 yearcollectUsed to send data to Google Analytics about the visitor's device and on-site behavior.Sessionpersonalization_idThe cookie allows the visitor to share content from the website onto their Twitter profile.2 years_gat_gtag_UA_42858496_11Used to throttle request rate.1 minuteclient_dimensionPrevent fire client_dimension event more than 1 time per session.SessionDeliver ads and track performance (third-party cookies)Deliver ads and track performance (third-party cookies)Cookie nameDescriptionExpiration_gcl_auUsed by Google AdSense for experimenting with advertisement efficiency across websites using their services.3 monthsWe use cookies to enable the proper functioning and security of our website, and help us to offer you the best possible user experience. By clicking Accept, you consent to the use of these cookies for advertising and analytics. You can change your cookie settings at any time. For more information, please read our Cookie Policy.


Sign Up ›
                






 

 
 
 





My Developer Account >


Create Account>


My Settings>

















Products






                              All Developer Centers
                            



                              Community Cloud
                            



                              Einstein Analytics
                            



                              Einstein Platform
                            



                              Embedded Service SDK for Mobile
                            



                              Heroku Developer Center
                            



                              Identity
                            



                              Integration and APIs
                            



                              Lightning Apps
                            







                              Lightning Flow
                            



                              Marketing Cloud
                            



                              Mobile Developer Center
                            



                              Mulesoft Developer Center
                            



                              Pardot Developer Center
                            



                              Quip Developer Center
                            



                              Salesforce DX
                            



                              Security
                            



                              Service Cloud
                            








                    Docs
                  



                        Lightning Component Library
                      



                        Lightning Design System
                      



                        Apex
                      



                        Lightning Aura Components
                      



                        APIs
                      



                        All Documentation
                      




Learn



                        Trailhead
                      



                        Certification
                      



                        Sample Gallery
                      



                        Podcast
                      



                        Video Gallery
                      



                        Events and Webinars
                      



                        Tools
                      




Community



                        Forums
                      



                        Success Stories
                      



                        Developer Groups
                      



                        Partners
                      




Blog


COVID-19



                        Work.com
                        




                        Trailhead Resources
                        




                        Leading Through Change with Data
                        




                        COVID-19 Data Hub
                        




                        COVID-19 Global Daily Tracker
                        




                        Global Economy Data Track
                        




                        Government Data Track
                        




                        Healthcare Data Track
                        




                        B-Well Together
                        




                        Leading Through Change
                        




                        Salesforce Care
                        




                        AppExchange Resources
                        




                        MuleSoft Resources
                        






































































Don't have an account?
Signup for a Developer Edition











Apex Code Development (87336)


General Development (53928)


Visualforce Development (36824)


Lightning (16100)


APIs and Integration (16031)


Trailhead (11342)


Formulas & Validation Rules Discussion (10727)


Other Salesforce Applications (7779)


Jobs Board (6624)


Force.com Sites & Site.com (4727)


Mobile (2613)


Java Development (3889)


.NET Development (3504)


Security (3199)


Mobile (2613)


Visual Workflow (2360)


AppExchange Directory & Packaging (2331)


Perl, PHP, Python & Ruby Development (2011)


Chatter and Chatter API Development (1707)


Salesforce Labs & Open Source Projects (1221)


Desktop Integration (1141)


Architecture (941)


Schema Development (912)


Apple, Mac and OS X (789)


VB and Office Development (633)


Einstein Platform (190)


Salesforce $1 Million Hackathon (180)


Salesforce Summer of Hacks (173)



View More Topics

See All Posts











Ask
Search:


Reset Search









Search for an answer or ask a question of the zone or Customer Support.
Need help?
Dismiss





You need to sign in to do that
Sign in to start searching questions

Don't have an account?
Signup for a Developer Edition



ShowAll Questionssorted byDate Posted 

ShowAll QuestionsUnanswered QuestionsUnsolved QuestionsSolved Questions
sorted byDate PostedRecent ActivityMost Popular
 




+ Start a Discussion

You need to sign in to do that
Sign in to start a discussion

Don't have an account?
Signup for a Developer Edition


Unsolved QuestionsThis Question
kapil chauhan 6 We have implemented EmaiService for Email - To - case to automatically create cases from incoming emails .Is there any identifier in email header to identify spam emails .In email header  "Received-spf" is there but its not suffient for identifying the spam email .can you suggest any solution!December 11, 2018 · Answer · Like0 · Follow0
Sandhya (Salesforce Developers) Hi,Check below help article for this.https://help.salesforce.com/articleView?id=000175832&type=1 Best Regards,SandhyaDecember 11, 2018 · Like0 · Dislike0



 












Need an account?
Sign Up


Have an account?
Sign In

Dismiss


Need help?



























                    All Documentation
                  



                    Apex
                  



                    APIs
                  



                    Lightning Aura Components
                  



                    Lightning Component Library
                  










                    Commerce Cloud
                  



                    Community Cloud
                  



                    Einstein Analytics
                  



                    Einstein Platform
                  



                    Embedded Service SDK for Mobile
                  



                    Heroku Developer Center
                  



                    Identity
                  



                    Integration and APIs
                  



                    Lightning Apps
                  



                    Lightning Flow
                  



                    Marketing Cloud
                  



                    Mobile Developer Center
                  



                    Mulesoft Developer Center
                  



                    Pardot Developer Center
                  


Quip Developer Center



                    Salesforce DX
                  



                    Security
                  



                    Service Cloud
                  









Blog



                    Certification
                  



                    Events and Webinars
                  


Podcast



                    Sample Gallery
                  


Tools


Trailhead



                    Video Gallery
                  










                    Developer Groups
                  


Forums



                    Partners
                  



                    Success Stories
                  










Subscribe to our monthly newsletter



Your email address:





























              © Copyright 2000-2020 salesforce.com, inc. All rights reserved.
              Various trademarks held by their respective owners.
              
              Salesforce.com, inc. Salesforce Tower, 415 Mission Street, 3rd
              Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105, United States
            



                Privacy Statement
              

                Security Statement
              
Terms of Use


                Cookie Preferences
              



                Feedback
              
About Us

                Language:
                English


Choose a Language

English
日本語


March 19, 2018









ecommerce


Written by Franco Varriano.
I’m sure you’ve run into the frustrating question “why are my emails going to spam?”. Well don’t worry - we are here with our 12 step guide to explain how to stop your emails from going to spam with some tips & tricks on how to avoid spam filters.
It would be a shame for all the hard work you put into crafting your emails to go to waste, but that’s exactly what happens when your email ends up in a subscriber’s spam folder. In fact, a report from Return Path reveals that spam filters are more rigorous than ever, with one in five emails failing to reach the inbox.
When you’re putting together an email marketing campaign, statistics like this are alarming. But don’t worry--we’ve got your back. We don’t want your emails to be just another statistic, and we’ve written the following guide to help you keep your emails out of the junk folder and in your recipient’s inbox where they belong. So without further ado, here are the 12 things you must do to prevent emails from winding up in spam.
1. Ask Subscribers to Whitelist Your Email Address

Whitelisting an email address in Gmail.
Google, Microsoft, and Yahoo! all work hard to ensure that their email program spam filters don’t catch emails that come from people in your contacts. These companies (rightly) assume that if an email is from someone in your contacts, it’s not spam.
To ensure that your emails get this privileged treatment, ask your subscribers to whitelist your emails by adding your “From” address to their contacts or list of safe senders. We recommend including instructions and screenshots illustrating how to do this, as you should not assume that all of your subscribers have the technical proficiency to whitelist emails.
To ensure that all your emails get this treatment, include the whitelisting instructions in the first welcome email you send when someone joins your email list.
2. Always Get Permission to Send Emails
Nothing will get your emails flagged as spam faster than sending an email without permission. Just think about what you do when you get an email from an unknown sender. Assuming the email even makes it through your email service’s spam filter, you’re going to mark it as spam without even opening it.
Sending people marketing emails without their permission is not a recipe for business success in the long-term. If you want to convince subscribers to buy from you, you want them to be engaged and interested. Random email recipients are neither; they’re indifferent at best and more likely annoyed to get an email from someone they don’t know. Always get permission before sending an email; it’s the best practice both ethically and financially.
3. Follow the Laws Governing Email Marketing
Speaking of ethics, you need to be aware of the laws that govern digital marketing communications. In particular, you should be familiar with the CAN-SPAM Act, which outlines the practices you must use when sending commercial emails.
You don’t need to read every line of the law, but you should know that there are harsh penalties for sending spam emails. How do you know if an email is (legally) spam? The CAN-SPAM Act defines spam email as any message which you:

Send without the recipient’s permission.
Send without including a mailing address.
Send with a deceptive subject line.
Send without including a way for recipients to opt-out.

You don’t need to be too worried about the above, since all modern email marketing programs ensure that you comply with the mailing address and opt-outs by default. But you should be careful about your subject lines, which we’ll explore in more detail later in this post.
4. Use a Reputable Email Marketing Program
One sign that spam filters keep a look out for when trying to catch messages is to look at the IP address associated with the sending email address and see if there are any spam complaints associated with it. If there are, then legitimate email addresses can get flagged simply due to association.
To make sure this doesn’t happen to your emails, always use a reputable email provider. All the top providers take steps to prevent spammers from using their platforms, which helps ensure that the malicious actions of spammers don’t hurt the deliverability of your emails.
Furthermore, as we already mentioned, the best email marketing software providers will also have features built in to help you avoid other common spam triggers such as not including a physical address or using a sending email address that looks suspicious.
5. Proofread Your Emails
If your emails sound like they were written hastily (or by a computer), that can be a red flag for spam filters. If a typo slips into your emails occasionally, that’s not going to cause you any serious trouble. But if your emails are riddled with typos, grammatical errors, and sentences that just sound...off, then there’s the risk that spam filters will stop them.
For example, have a look at this real phishing email:

While you’re not going to write an email with problems this extreme, it does offer valuable lessons about how typos, poor formatting, and bad grammar are all hallmarks of spam emails. If you’re not comfortable with your grammar abilities, then find someone you trust to proofread your emails for you, or at least use a program such as Grammarly to catch basic grammar errors.
6. Don’t Write Spammy Subject Lines
While in the past there were specific lists of “spam trigger words” to avoid in your marketing emails, spam filters are now much more sophisticated. Therefore, instead of focusing on specific words to avoid, it’s best to think more holistically and ensure that you don’t write subject lines that sound like spam.
For an example of spammy subject lines, have a look at the following screenshot taken from a real Gmail Spam folder.

As you can see, some of these emails are from legitimate brands like Lyft, Dollar Shave Club, and FareDepot. However, due to the wording the email marketers at these companies chose, the emails have ended up in spam. Note how many of these emails make references to money, use too many exclamation points, or generally promise discounts.
Does this mean you should never send emails with subject lines offering discounts or deals? Of course not, but it does show that you should be careful with these sorts of subject lines. For more information, you can review our guide to email subject line best practices.
7. Purge Abandoned Email Addresses from Your List
One metric that spam filters use to catch errant emails is to look at how many of the emails to which you are sending are active. If the percentage is too low, then that can be a sign that you’re sending spam email content.
To ensure this doesn’t happen, you should regularly remove addresses associated with email accounts that don’t appear to be active. If someone hasn’t opened your emails in a long time, then it’s probably safe to remove them from your list. You can think of this like pruning a tree. You cut away small bits now in order to ensure the overall continued health of the organism.
Of course, this advice only applies if a small number of your subscribers aren’t engaging with your content. If you have low email open rates overall, then you may need to rethink your overall email marketing strategy, as this could indicate a deeper issue than just a few inactive email addresses.
8. Use a Spam-Checking Tool

Wouldn’t it be great if there were a program that would just tell you if your emails were likely to get caught by spam filters or if they're still even valid at all? As it turns out, such applications exist.
One of our favorites is called Emailable. Simply send your email to their provided email address in order to automatically receive a report on how likely your email is to go to a recipient’s spam folder.
9. Have a Clear Sender Address
Your sender address is what appears in the “From” field when someone looks at your email. If you have a sender address full of random characters or that just sounds suspicious, you run the risk of your email getting flagged as spam.
For this reason, we recommend avoiding sender addresses that contain lots of numbers or gibberish. Stick to either a person’s name or your company name. Not only is this helpful for keeping you out of spam, but it’s also more personal than a string of random characters, which people have come to associate with automatic emails, not compelling, personalized offers.
10. Email Your Subscribers Regularly
If you only send an email every couple of months, then you risk subscribers forgetting who you are or why they subscribed. If this happens, they may unsubscribe or even mark your email as spam when they do finally hear from you.
To prevent this, stay in regular contact with your subscribers. Of course, you should always provide value when you send an email; don’t just email subscribers with a certain frequency because it’s “best practice” to do so.
Rather, look for opportunities to provide value to your subscribers as often as you can. If that’s just once a week, that’s okay, so long as you consistently email them each week (and use smart timing to make sure they get the emails when they’re most likely to open them).
11. Make it Easy to Unsubscribe

Making it easy for your subscribers to leave your email list might seem like a counterintuitive suggestion, but it’s key to both complying with the CAN-SPAM Act and ensuring that subscribers trust you. While complying with the law is your foremost priority, including a way to unsubscribe also shows subscribers that you have confidence in the value of your content. After all, if you don’t think that your emails are excellent, why would you send them to begin with?
How easy you make it to unsubscribe is up to you. Some brands take the confidence approach to the extreme, placing an unsubscribe button in the header as well as the footer of their emails. While you can do this, there’s also the risk that people will either unsubscribe without reading the email or hit the button by mistake if you place it in the header.
Therefore, we think that a standard unobtrusive unsubscribe button in the email footer is the way to go for most ecommerce entrepreneurs. See the above screenshot from a Stack Overflow email for an example of this, and remember that your email marketing software will already have this feature built into its templates.
12. Be Honest
We already mentioned how the CAN-SPAM Act forbids sending deceptive emails, but the point warrants further exploration. Above all, you should always be honest in your email marketing. Don’t write subject lines that trick people into opening your messages.
Specifically, don’t write things that make emails look like they’re from a person’s employer, subject lines that are threatening or alarming, or email addresses that appear to be from someone they’re not. Resorting to cheap tricks like these is not the way to run a business. Instead, focus on how you can create value for your subscribers. When you give them a great offer, the money will take care of itself.
We hope you now understand what causes emails to end up in spam, as well as what you can do to keep them from going there. As long as you follow the best practices we’ve outlined above, you can rest confident that the emails you send will wind up in your subscribers’ inboxes, and not buried in the junk mail folder.
Next up, take a look at our Resources page for useful guides and tutorials to help you maximize your returns from email marketing.
And if you want actionable tips that can help you increase your eCommerce revenue today then read this case study about how one eCommerce merchant has made $245,000+ with a welcome series email.


Your email address is incredibly precious to websites, marketing services, apps and other third-parties. It's how they get their product directly to you without much effort and expense. While spam and marketing emails here and there aren't much of a concern, over time they eventually become a nuisance, when your inbox is suddenly flooded with them. Fortunately, there are solutions out there to help prevent this from happening.If you're an Apple user, you can minimize spam with the built-in Hide My Email tool, which keeps your inbox lean by preventing junk emails from showing up in the first place. The feature is part of a trio of privacy-focused services for iCloud users that pay for iCloud Plus, which ranges from $1 to $10 per month.Read more: Apple's New iCloud Plus Features Include Encrypted Private RelayWith Hide My Email, you can generate a random and anonymous email address to use when you're looking to score a discount or download something for free. Although emails sent to the anonymous email are forwarded to your personal account, you can always deactivate the Hide My Email address and prevent any more emails from coming in, especially after you get what you need (like a promo code or free download link). It works a bit like unsubscribing, but makes the process a whole lot easier on iOS.













Now playing:
Watch this:

                    iOS 15 best features: How Focus mode improved my iPhone
                





7:20
                    



With Apple's Hide My Email feature, you can generate random, unique email addresses when you need to provide your email address on a website. It will then forward mail to your actual inbox, while reducing the number of lists your legitimate email address appears on. Hide My Email also allows you to create and delete as many addresses as needed at any time, giving you more control over who can contact you. This is similar to Sign In with Apple, which uses your iOS device to verify credentials instead of your social account logins (thus making it harder for others to track you online). It can be a bit confusing, because Sign In with Apple also includes a feature called Hide My Email, which does not require a subscription to iCloud Plus. The difference is that Sign In with Apple's feature only works for signing up for apps and services, while the Hide My Email feature that's part of iCloud Plus lets you create and delete email addresses any time you need to. In other words, the "old" feature is an option you can only activate when signing up for a service with your Apple ID, but the iCloud Plus feature allows you to do the same thing on demand for any purpose. Hide My Email is built directly into Safari, Mail and iCloud settings. It arrived as part of the 2021 software update to iOS 15, iPadOS 15, MacOS Monterey and iCloud.com. You can try it out now as long as you've downloaded iOS 15. Read more: Digital Legacy in iOS 15 Protects Your Data After You DieHere's how to set up Hide My Email in iOS 15 once you have it downloaded:1. Go to Settings and tap your name at the top to access your account. 2. Tap iCloud > Hide My Email. 3. Tap Create New Address. Apple will automatically generate a unique, random address that ends in @icloud.com and forwards to your personal inbox. If you don't like the address it creates, you can tap Use Different Address to see a new one. If you're satisfied, tap Continue. 4. On the next screen, you can label your address and add a note to help you remember what it's for. Tap Next in the upper right corner. Your random address has now been created, and you can use it wherever you please. To manage all of these random email addresses, here's what to do:1. Go to Settings and tap your name at the top to access your account. 2. Tap iCloud > Hide My Email. You'll see a list of all the addresses you've created with the labels you input. 3. Tap any of the items in the list to see the app, the random address Hide My Email created, where it's getting forwarded to, the label and any notes.4. To delete one of the email addresses, tap Deactivate Email Address at the bottom. A box will pop up confirming your choice, and letting you know you can reactivate the address from an Inactive Addresses list. Tap Deactivate. However, if you use the Hide My Email tool via Sign in With Apple, you cannot remove the anonymous email feature without completely removing Sign in With Apple as well. If you tap any options in the Hide My Email list, you can then tap Manage Settings to view all the apps and websites that are currently using both Hide My Email and Sign in With Apple. Within each of those options, you can hit Stop Using Apple ID to stop Hide My Email, but that will also remove Sign in With Apple, meaning you'll have to find another way to sign into that app or website from then on.


Comparitech uses cookies. More info.
Close











Menu
Close





 




Search





 




VPN

By Use

Netflix
Kodi
Torrenting
Hulu
Sky Go
Gaming
BBC iPlayer
Tor
Best overall


By OS/Device

Mac
Windows
Linux
Windows 10
Firestick
iPhone and iPad
Android
Windows Phone
DD-WRT Routers


By Country

China
Japan
US
UK
Canada
Australia
Germany
France
UAE & Dubai


Guides

Fastest VPNs
Cheapest VPNs
Free VPNs
How to access the deep web
Is torrenting safe and legal?
Build your own VPN
Facebook privacy and security
How to encrypt email
How to stay anonymous online
How we test VPNs
See all


Reviews

NordVPN
Surfshark
ExpressVPN
IPVanish
PrivateVPN
StrongVPN
CyberGhost
PureVPN
See all




Antivirus

Reviews

Norton Antivirus
TotalAV
Intego VirusBarrier X9
McAfee
VIPRE
Panda Security
Eset
See all


By OS/Device

Mac
Windows


Guides

Best Free Firewalls
Free Antivirus Software
Malware Statistics & Facts
See all


Compare providers

McAfee vs Kaspersky
Norton vs Kaspersky
McAfee vs Norton




Online backup
Streaming

Kodi
Plex
Sports Streaming
TV Streaming
IPTV


Blog

VPN & Privacy
Cloud and Online Backup
Information Security


More Comparisons

Password Managers
Identity Theft Protection
Usenet
Privacy & Security Tools
Internet Providers
Parental Control Software
Net Admin Tools
Data Privacy Management
Data Recovery Software
Crypto
Utilities


About Us

About Our Company
Press
Software Testing Methodology
Editorial Process
Join us
Contact


 










Net Admin10 Best Anti-Spam Software Tools for 2022


We are funded by our readers and may receive a commission when you buy using links on our site.            

Keeping spam and malicious emails out of your inbox has become a necessity. In this article, we show you the best anti-spam software on the market. 



Tim Keary
Network administration expert 

UPDATED: May 11, 2022











































Spam has been a nuisance from the moment businesses and consumers started using email accounts. Employees can end up spending a lot of time scanning through inboxes full of unwanted sales promotions and accidentally deleting important business emails that are surrounded by spam entries in the list of unread messages.. Anti-spam software has become one of the best weapons against malicious email communications.
Without an anti-spam filter, just one wrong click can place your device and network in danger. Inbound emails are one of the most common entry points for malicious software in enterprise environments.
Here is our list of the best anti-spam software:

Trustifi Inbound Shield EDITOR’S CHOICE This cloud-based email security system scans incoming mails and roots out malware and spam. You can access a free demo.
N-able Mail Assure (FREE TRIAL) A cloud-based email protection package that is designed for use by MSPs and corporate IT departments. This edge service blocks spam, viruses, and malware and uses a threat intelligence feed that is derived from events on the mail systems of all N-able customers. Start a 30-day free trial.
SpamTitan A web-based email spam filter that covers Microsoft Office 365.
Mailwasher A spam blocker for Windows Live Mail, Outlook, Outlook Express, Incredimail, Thunderbird, Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo, EM Client.
ZEROSPAM Cloud-based spam, ransomware, and phishing blocker.
SpamSieve The best email spam filter for Macs with adaptive spam identification over time.
Comodo Dome Antispam An edge email spam blocking service.
MX Guarddog A spam filter that also blocks DDOS attacks, phishing attacks, malware, and viruses.
SPAMfighter A spam filter for Outlook, Outlook Express, Windows Live Mail, Windows Mail, and Thunderbird.
ORF Fusion A spam filter with a 23-layered testing system.



What should you look for in anti-spam software? 
We reviewed the market for anti-spam software and analyzed the options based on the following criteria:

An anti-spam system that integrates into email services
Automatic spam blocking
Customizable filtering rules
Malware blocking
An event log
A free assessment period or money-back guarantee
Value for money with a suitable set of tools for a good price




Trustifi Inbound Shield is a cloud-based email protection system that you implement in your own mail server through an API. Adding on this plug-in sets up a call to the remote process to scan each incoming mail. The service is also available as a plug-in for Microsoft 365 and Google Workspace.
Key Features:

Cloud-based
Doesn’t require architectural changes to install
Admins can review quarantined items – minimizez end user disruption

The Trustifi system is able to spot spam, phishing emails, and bulk emails that are termed “graymail.” The system uses a combination of AI-based threat detection and email address and IP address blacklists. It looks at source email addresses and correlates them to known identifies of employees to block impersonation attempts. It can also detect malicious links to impersonating or infected websites.




A plug-in for email servers
Integrations with Microsoft 365 and Google Workspace
Pre-filtering





Would prefer a free trial



As well as scanning the email header and body, Trustifi Inbound Shield checks through attachments. What the system does with suspicious emails is up to you. The system presents a range of options that can be configured to coordinate with your security policy. When suspicious emails are detected, they can be quarantined for manual inspection. The system will notify the administrator when malicious mails are detected and compile reports on detection rates and outcomes. In order to discover the price for Trustifi Inbound Shield, you need to request a quote. You can access a free demo.

EDITOR’S CHOICE
Trustifi Inbound Shield is our top pick for an anti-spam software tool because it slots into your Google Workspaces and Microsoft 365 accounts to offer protection for your email system that expands beyond spam filtering. This security service uses AI to identify phishing attempts and will also look for mismatches in source domains and IP addresses to identify masquerading. This system will also scan emails and attachments for viruses.
Access a demo: https://trustifi.com/demo/
Operating system: Cloud-based



N-able Mail Assure is a cloud-based business email protection service that is suitable for use by enterprise IT departments or managed service providers. The multi-tenant option in the platform allows MSPs to provide spam and malware protection to the email systems of their clients without the danger of data leaks between client accounts. The program is supplied information from over 1.8 million domains to provide the user with better insights into current threats. When using the software, the user can view problematic email messages in quarantine and blacklist suspicious senders from contacting them.
Key Features

A constantly updated blacklist
Quarantining
Integration with Office 365
Option for MSPs
Phishing protection

N-able’s Mail Assure is a cloud-based solution, making it easy to configure and deploy. To start monitoring you just need to add a new domain. Once installed you benefit from SSL/TLS traffic encryption.
The tool is ideal for enterprise users because it offers integration for Office 365. If the Office 365 email service goes down then the user can send emails from N-able’s Mail Assure web-based dashboard instead. In the event of an outage, the dashboard allows you to keep your service up and running.




Built to scale, can support large multi-tenant environments or enterprise networks with multiple domains, locations, and mail servers
Utilizes a backend database of threat intelligence to find and stop new and emerging threats
Operates in the cloud, making it flexible than most on-premise solutions
Supports integrations into mail platforms such as Office 365
Helps detect and stop phishing attacks
Dashboard is highly customizable and gives administrators a detailed view of mail performance and security metrics





Built for larger organizations, not ideal for home users



The N-able Mail Assure edge service is easy to set up and doesn’t require you to host the software on your business’s servers. This system can be applied very quickly and provides upsell opportunities for MSPs looking to add extra services to their price lists. You can examine the N-able Mail Assure system with a 30-day free trial.
 
N-able Mail Assure
Start 30-day free trial




SpamTitan is a web-based anti-spam solution intended for Microsoft Office 365 accounts. The tool is designed to discover phishing email attacks, spear-phishing attacks, and zero-day attacks. To recognize the latest threats SpamTitan uses a mixture of machine learning and Bayesian analysis to identify new attacks. The powerful email protection against zero-day threats is excellent for minimizing exposure towards emerging email threats.
Key Features

Compliments Microsoft 365
AI-processes for spam detection
Blacklisting and whitelisting
Manually identify major targets

IP address whitelisting and blacklisting controls whether mail reaches your inbox or gets blocked from future communication. For wider security, you can apply different degrees of Spam Confidence Levels to users, user groups, and domains. By segmenting your email environment in this fashion you can manage potential entry points much more effectively.




Built specifically for Office 365 users, making it an attractive option for 365 mail systems
Uses AI and behavioral analytics to detect and stop threats
Allows for manual prioritization of threats







Interface feels outdated and can be difficult to navigate
Outlook plugin may cause Outlook to open slowly or crash




Logs could be easier to manage and parse



Prices are levied as a subscription with a rate per user per month. There is a minimum order of 25 user licenses. The price per user per month lowers if you choose a longer payment cycle. The options range from a monthly payment to a 3-year payment plan. The lowest price comes with the 3-year plan, which works out at $1.49 (£1.12) per user per month. However, you have to pay for the whole payment period in advance, so that 3-year option for 25 users works out at an upfront payment of $1,336,50 (£1008.95).


Mailwasher is a program that is used to block spam before it reaches your inbox. The tool is compatible with all email providers on desktop and mobile devices. Email providers supported by Mailwasher include Outlook, Outlook Express, Incredimail, Thunderbird, Windows Live Mail, Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo, EM Client, and more. The diverse range of email accounts supported by Mailwasher makes the software versatile in enterprise environments.
Key Features

Pre-filters mail offsite
Integrates with major email clients
Content filtering

To stop viruses from entering your inbox, the program allows you to preview and delete emails before they are downloaded to your computer. By blocking emails like this you can view information within the email without opening it and leaving your computer at risk of transmitting a virus.
Filtering is another way that Mailwasher monitors incoming emails for suspicious signs. The filter can spot spam content and offensive words so that the sender can be automatically blacklisted from future correspondence. To stop false alerts you can add colleagues and clients to your ‘friends’ list.




Available for all major mail applications such as Gmail, Hotmail, and Yahoo, making it a flexible option for home users using a third-party mail service
Can scan and delete malicious attachments before they reach the inbox
Can filter for offensive content, good option for protecting children with email addresses
Comes free with paid version





Interface is outdated and difficult to navigate with large amounts of events
Not the best fit for enterprise networks or large businesses
Expensive when compared to similar tools



There are two versions of Mailwasher available to download: Mailwasher Free and Mailwasher Pro. Mailwasher Free is available free of charge and supports one email address. MailWasher Pro starts from $49.95 (£37.71) and supports multiple email addresses with support seven days a week.


ZEROSPAM is a cloud-based anti-spam solution that protects against spam, ransomware, and email phishing. If someone sends you an email with a bad link or a malicious attachment, ZEROSPAM will block it. For further protection, the program uses TLS encryption to keep your interactions safe from snooping. In the event the client-server goes down, the tool will use automatic mail queuing to help you return to normal operations ASAP.
Key Features

Edge service
Ransomware protection
Phishing detection

The low false-positive rate of ZEROSPAM is one of the main reasons to use the product. It strikes a balance between screening out harmful messages without blocking communications from legitimate email users. From an enterprise perspective, this is an anti-spam platform that doesn’t get in the way of day-to-day operations.




Runs in the cloud, no need for onboarding or complex installation
Operates across 20 different sites, giving it increased reliability
Anti-spam has a low false-positive rate, helping avoid lost business-related emails to the spam filter





Could use better management features for multiple inboxes
Hosted in Canada, maybe slower if located elsewhere in the world



The solution is also resistant to going down. ZEROSPAM is powered by a network of over 20 filtering nodes hosted across three Canadian data to make sure the service stays online. This means that even if something goes down, your service stays available when you need it.


The spam filter in Mail on Macs isn’t very good. If you use a different email client, you are stuck with whatever Junk main identification that system provides. However, if you want a better spam filtering service, you can try SpamSieve instead.
Key Features

Runs on Macs
AI-based spam detection
Blacklistingt and whitelisting

This spam filtering solution includes whitelisting and blacklisting and it uses machine learning to improve spam identification in your Inbox over time. You can set up your own block list and also customize other features of the interface, such as its color and layout. SpamSieve also allows you to create your own mailbox management scripts that perform different actions depending on factors such as the sender or subject line.
SpamSieve works as a plug-in so you can access its functions from within your email client instead of needing to go to a different application. It will work with a long list of email systems on Macs, including Apple Mail (Mail.app), Airmail, Entourage, MailMate, Mailsmith, Postbox 5, PowerMail, and Outlook.




Operates within your existing email client
Applies machine learning to improve and tailor spam identification
Allows customization through settings and scripts
Includes whitelisting as well as blacklisting





Not free forever



A single-user license costs $30 (£22.65) per year and you can also get a two user license, called the Family plan, for $48 ($36.24). A site-wide plan is priced on consultation. SpamSieve is available for a 30-day free trial.


Comodo Dome Antispam is a spam prevention tool designed for enterprise users. Comodo Dome Antispam scans and filters emails to keep your inbox safe from cyber attackers. When downloading files from the inbox, Comodo Dome Antispam uses its Valkyrie file verdict platform to analyze files as they are being downloaded. You can open and interact with a file without any risk of infection even from the latest malware attacks.
Key Features

Choice of self-hosted, private cloud, or SaaS service
Sandboxing for attachments
Pre-filters spam before the mail server

Email filtering controls the type of messages you see when you open up your email account. Emails with viruses are blocked so you don’t get put offline to make sure you have complete transparency over emails sent to your inbox. Through the management console, you can view archived and quarantined emails.




Analyzes files as they are downloaded for threats, and before they arrive in the inbox
Advanced filtering can junk or sort emails based on keywords, sender, or size
Available as an on-premise or cloud-based solution





Interface feels like it hasn’t been updated since its launch in the 90s
Emails can be delayed if misconfigured



There are three installations of Comodo Dome Antispam available: Shared Server, Hosted Cloud, and On-Site. To view the pricing, you need to contact the company directly. If you’re looking for an anti-spam solution with flexible deployment options, Comodo Dome Antispam is highly recommended.


MX Guarddog is a spam blocker that uses TLS encryption to protect your email inbox. Phishing attacks, malware, DDoS attacks, and viruses are just some of the things that MX Guarddog defends against. Once any communication is blocked, you can view a quarantine report which will show the message content that was blocked.
Key Features

Blocks spam and malware
SaaS package hosted in the cloud
Integrates with access rights managers

Legitimate mail is forwarded straight to your email server. MX Guarddog automatically syncs email addresses from Windows AD, LDAP, and cPanel systems for convenience. In the event that your server goes down, your mail will be stored and automatically delivered to you the next time you’re online.




Better interface than similar solutions
Can easily remove false positives from quarantine
Can integrate and sync with LDAP and Active Directory services, good for Windows-based email systems
Protects against phishing as well as file-based malware





Interface feels like it hasn’t been updated since its launch in the 90s
Emails can be delayed if misconfigured
Charges per email, which makes budgeting unpredictable



MX Guarddog is a great low-cost alternative for stopping spam in its tracks. The tool operates as a SaaS package and starts at a price of $0.25 (£0.20) per email address, per month. There is no charge for user or domain aliases.


SPAMfighter is a spam filter compatible with Outlook, Outlook Express, Thunderbird, Windows Mail, and Windows Live Mail. SPAMfighter’sfiltering works in multiple languages and can block spam in English, Spanish, German, French, Italian, Polish, Danish, and more. Once a suspicious email has been flagged the software will add the sender to the blacklist and block future emails from reaching your inbox.
Key Features

Plug-in for major email clients
Free version available
Maintains local blacklist

The user interface is simple to navigate and you can view live statistics on blocked messages. In addition, you also have Spam Abuse Reporting at the click of a button if you need to gather information. Being able to organize all of this security information helps to make sure that you know about everything that is trying to reach out to your account.




Supports multiple languages, good for international use
Can view live statistics on emails such as volume, spam ratio, and number of blocked spam attempts
Can forward spam that gets through so the system can learn to identify it in the future





Dated interface is hard to navigate and learn



There are two versions of SPAMfighter to download: SPAMfighter Standard and SPAMfighter Pro. SPAMfighter Standard is available for free with commercials and restricted features such as a limit on blacklist/whitelist entries. SPAMfighter Pro starts at $29 (£21.89) for one year. There are also 2 and 3-year payment options. The Pro account offers unlimited blacklist/whitelist entries, language filtering, and more.


ORF Fusion is a piece of spam filter software designed specifically for business use cases. The tool eliminates false positives and ensures that legitimate email makes its way to your inbox. One of the unique selling points of ORF Fusion is that it has 23 layered tests to check the status of mail. These tests are a mixture of blacklist and whitelist tests that stop malicious mail without affecting genuine mail.
Key Features

Integrates with mail servers
Administrator controls over spam handling
Blacklisting and whitelisting

You can create your own whitelists to make sure that your trusted email senders aren’t put through spam filtering. The user also has control over what happens to those emails that are caught by the spam filter. For instance, you can bounce them to reject the transmission, keep the mail, or redirect it to a different mailbox.




Very advanced, built for email administrations
Offers detailed blacklisting by IP address, IP range, country, and DNS
Email passed through 23 different filters before being allows to the inbox
Highly configurable





Higher learning curve than similar software
Designed for professionals, not built for the non-technical
Misconfiguration could lead to delayed emails and false positives



Overall, ORF Fusion’s low false-positive rate makes it ideal for enterprises looking for information security that doesn’t impede their ability to communicate. ORF Fusion integrates with Microsoft Exchange and the IIS SMTP Service. The price of the product starts at $55 (£43.75) per year for 10 users.

There is so much variety amongst anti-spam software providers that it can be difficult to choose. If you’re unsure you can’t go wrong with a tool like N-able Mail Assure or SpamTitan. Both tools are easy to use with whitelisting and blacklisting to control what mail reaches your inbox.

There are two important reasons to scan outgoing email. The first is to prevent spam emails from being sent from addresses on your domain. This is a reputation management issue because a high volume of spam will get all of the emails sent from your domain name filtered out as spam. The second purpose is for data loss prevention.Some email systems include a read receipt notification option. However, the corresponding email clients of those systems also allow the recipient to block the sending of email opening confirmation while other systems, such as Gmail, only enable read receipt notifications between email addresses within its domain. A more common notification method is to include a tracking pixel in the email. When the recipient opens the email, the pixel loads from its home server, triggering a record that the email was opened. Recipients can prevent this notification process by setting a block on images loading in emails.Anti-spam systems usually work as a filter. They don’t store emails on their own servers and so won’t compromise your privacy. Secure sensitive emails with end-to-end encryption to be sure that no proxy service can read the contents.
Image by AndyPandy from Pixabay




The best anti-spam software blockersBest anti-spam softwareEmail spam blocker software FAQsIs scanning outbound emails important?Can spammers tell if you open an email?Can anti-spam software companies be trusted with my sensitive emails? 



 











CommentName 
Email 
 

Δ 
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. 
 





 



Search





  Twitter icon        





Home
Blog
Authors
Privacy policy
Cookies Policy
Terms of use
Disclosure
About Comparitech
Contact Us
Accessibility
 




                    © 2022 Comparitech Limited. All rights reserved.                    Comparitech.com is owned and operated by Comparitech Limited, a registered company in England and Wales (Company No. 09962280), Suite 3 Falcon Court Business Centre, College Road, Maidstone, Kent, ME15 6TF, United Kingdom. Telephone +44(0)333 577 0163                







SolarWinds

SolarWinds Top 5 Essential IT Tools







Web Heldesk simplifies support ticketing
Remote Support - desktop remote control
FTP Server for internal and external file sharing
Patch Manager - network wide Windows updates
Engineers Toolset has 60+ tools for network monitoring, management and security

DOWNLOAD FREE TRIAL
Fully functional for 30 days


Solution #00001428Scope: All Email Security Gateways, firmware versions 3.5 and above. Answer: If you are receiving any spam through the Email Security Gateway, there are a number of additional measures you can take to maximize the Email Security Gateway's spam-blocking effectiveness.You may need to adjust your spam scoring rules. If your block score, quarantine score, or tag score are set too high, the Barracuda may not be blocking all that it should. To check and see whether lowering a spam score is warranted, filter the message log (on the Basic > Message Log page) using the Score in Range (x,y) filter. If you are considering lowering your block score from 5 to 4, you might use that filter with the following pattern: 4,5. This will display emails that score between a 4 and a 5, so you will be able to tell whether lowering this particular score will affect legitimate messages that score in this range.Also, you should make sure that the Email Security Gateway is using the proper spam scoring values. On the Email Security Gateway 400 and above, each domain is configured with its own spam scoring values and you may need to edit each individual domain's values under the Domains tab. An individual domain's spam scoring values are used instead of the global values (if they differ). On the Email Security Gateway 600, each user may set his or her own spam scoring values if each user has a quarantine account and the administrator has enabled that per-user feature. An individual user's spam scoring values are used instead of the domain and global values (if they differ). Make sure your Energize Updates are up-to-date and configured to update hourly on the Advanced > Energize Updates page. A team of security engineers at Barracuda Central continuously monitors the Internet for trends in spam and virus attacks. As they detect trends, Energize Updates are created and distributed to all Email Security Gateways, which are automatically updated with new spam rules, spam algorithms, and virus definitions. If you don't take advantage of these updates, your Barracuda will not be fully able to block the newest types of spam messages. Check your current firmware version against the latest general release on the Advanced > Firmware Update page. You may need to update your firmware to the latest version; new firmware releases often include feature enhancements and bug fixes that further improve spam blocking effectiveness.Make sure the Email Security Gateway has not been mistakenly configured to whitelist either untrusted senders or recipients that want spam scanning. Whitelisting one of your domains as a recipient domain will effectively disable spam scanning for that domain. While whitelisted messages will be displayed as whitelisted on the Basic > Message Log page, you should also check the Block/Accept > Sender Domain Block/Accept, Block/Accept > Email Sender Block/Accept, and Block/Accept > Email Recipient Block/Accept pages to make sure you are not unknowingly whitelisting either sources of spam or users that want spam protection.Go to the Block/Accept > IP Reputation page and check to see whether the Barracuda IP Reputation option is set to Block. The Barracuda Email Security Gateway leverages data on the network addresses used to send email gathered by Barracuda Central, an advanced 24/7 security operations center that works to continuously monitor and block the latest Internet threats. Combining both the IP and reputation data enables Barracuda Networks to implement countermeasures to mitigate all spam and virus threats. Barracuda Central maintains historical data on IP addresses used in both spam attacks and legitimate email campaigns. Through the Barracuda Reputation System, the Email Security Gateway can make quick and computationally efficient decisions to block or accept email based on a simple lookup of the sender's IP address against the Barracuda IP Reputation list. Barracuda Networks recommends the use of this feature to maximize your Email Security Gateway's effectiveness.The Email Security Gateway is also compatible with custom external blacklists. If you have any third party blacklists you would like to use, you may enter them under the Custom External RBLs heading on the Block/Accept > IP Reputation page. While adding a few RBLs in this way will ensure the Barracuda Spam  Firewall blocks more email, be sure you're aware of what sorts of IPs are on the lists you configure. Adding too many RBLs may hurt performance and will significantly increase the risk of false positives. Use intent blocking. This is configured on the Basic > Spam Checking page. Barracuda Central maintains reputation on spam domains, phishing domains, and Web sites known to host malware. When these domain names are embedded in email message bodies, the Intent Analysis layer of the Email Security Gateway can quickly block email based on a simple database lookup. You should also enable the Realtime Intent Analysis and Multi-Level Intent Analysis options unless they affect performance; these two options may increase the load on the DNS servers specified on the Basic > IP Configuration page. Make sure Fingerprint Analysis is enabled and set to Block on the Basic > Spam Checking page. A message "fingerprint" is based on commonly used message components (e.g., an image) across many instances of spam. Fingerprint analysis is an often useful mechanism to block future instances of spam once an early outbreak is identified. Engineers at Barracuda Central work around the clock to identify new spam fingerprints which are then updated on all Email Security Gateways through Barracuda Energize Updates. Use recipient verification. Many spammers attack email infrastructures by harvesting email addresses. The Email Security Gateway is able to verify the validity of recipient email addresses through multiple techniques without needing to scan each message, and configuring it to do so will greatly increase efficiency as well as effectiveness.Email Security Gateways are able to perform LDAP and Active Directory recipient verification on all incoming e-mail. This means that a Email Security Gateway is able to block all e-mails addressed to users that don't exist. To configure LDAP verification, you will need an LDAP or Active Directory server. Once in the Barracuda's interface, click on the Domains tab and click the Edit LDAP link to the right of a domain to configure LDAP or Active Directory verification for that domain. LDAP must be configured individually for each domain. For help on configuring LDAP or Active Directory verification, see Solution #00002192.If no LDAP or Active Directory server has been specified for recipient verification, the Email Security Gateway will automatically attempt recipient verification over SMTP (meaning it will open SMTP connections with the destination mail server and check each recipient address to see whether the mail server will accept it). This is less efficient than LDAP verification, but it is a great option for organizations that don't maintain an LDAP or Active Directory server. If your mail server is not currently configured to perform SMTP verification, you need only enable it on your mail server. The Email Security Gateway should then automatically begin blocking email addressed to users that don't exist at your domain. For more information on recipient verification, see Solution #00003521.Train the Bayesian database by marking messages as Spam and Not Spam in the Barracuda's Message Log (Basic > Message Log). The Bayesian system can increase or decrease the spam score of a message by up to 5 points in either direction, and the adjustment in score depends on the Bayesian database's training. The Bayesian database is intended to adjust the spam score of messages that fall near the configured spam scoring thresholds so that they will be correctly classified. For more information on training the Bayesian database, please read the Barracuda Bayesian PDF document on barracuda.com/documentation.Go to the Block/Accept > Rate Control page and make sure rate control is enabled and the threshold is set to a reasonably low number (the default value of 50 is recommended). Automated spam software can be used to send large amounts of email to a single email server. To protect the email infrastructure from these flood-based attacks, the Email Security Gateway counts the number of incoming connections from a particular IP address and throttles the connections once the configured threshold is exceeded.Link to This Page: https://campus.barracuda.com/solution/50160000000GSAjAAO


Last updated on Feb 11, 2022 by Claire Broadley						


FacebookTweetLinkedInDo you want to stop contact form spam forever?
WPForms makes it super easy to stop email spam from reaching your inbox. That’ll help improve security, and you’ll get better leads from your website.
In this article, we’ll show you all of the anti-spam tools in WPForms so you can quickly stop contact form spam for good.
Block Content Form Spam Now

Enable the WPForms Anti-Spam Token
Use Google reCAPTCHA on Your Contact Form
Add hCaptcha to Your Contact Form
Use the WPForms Custom CAPTCHA Addon
Block or Allow Specific Email Addresses on Your Forms
Block Words or Company Names in Form Submissions
Block Spam Active IP Addresses

First, let’s look at why you’re getting so much spam from your online forms.

Bots spam forms to try and spread malware, phishing links, or sales messages. Since most website owners don’t publish their email addresses, using forms is an easier way for people to add spam comments.WPForms is the best WordPress Form Builder plugin. Get it for free!
This is why you need a secure contact form plugin that helps you stop form spam, especially if you’re running a small business site. Not only will it cut out the hassle of dealing with spam contact form submissions, but it’ll also reduce the security risk of you (or your customers) receiving phishing emails.

To deal with contact form spam effectively, you need to use WPForms.
WPForms is the most secure contact form plugin for WordPress. It has tons of different anti-spam tools that will dramatically reduce or even eliminate contact form spam.
Even better, you don’t need to install any extra anti-spam plugins. This video explains all of the WPForms techniques you can use to block contact form spam in WordPress.
﻿
Create Your Spam-Free Contact Form Now
Let’s look at the easiest and fastest anti-spam method to prevent form spam in WordPress.

If you want a super easy spam prevention method, the WPForms anti-spam token will be the perfect anti-spam solution for you.
The anti-spam token is great because the user doesn’t need to do anything to get past the spam check on your online forms.

Behind the scenes, we add a secret token that’s unique to each submission. Spambots can’t detect the token. And without it, they get stuck and can’t submit the form. Real users don’t even notice it’s there.
This way, WPForms maintains a high level of user experience while
How to Add the Anti-Spam Token to Your Forms
The WPForms anti-spam token is automatically enabled on each new form you create.
On old forms, you might still be using the old WPForms honeypot spam field. You’ll want to enable the new token setting manually to update your spam protection.
To enable the anti-spam token, first edit your form to open it up in the form builder.

When the form builder opens in your browser, go to Settings » General.

On the right hand side, scroll down to the bottom. Then check the Enable anti-spam protection checkbox.
Do you see the old honeypot method of spam prevention option in the settings as well? You can leave the honeypot field checked, or deselect it if you want to. Either way, the old honeypot won’t affect the way the new form token works.

Save your form and you’re done! Your WordPress contact form is now protected against spambots, with zero inconvenience for real visitors.
What Does ‘Form Token Is Invalid’ Mean?
The WPForms anti-spam token requires JavaScript to work. If you see the message ‘Form token is invalid’, it can mean that there’s a JavaScript error on your site.
To fix this, you’ll want to exclude WPForms scripts from being cached. This helps to prevent issues with the form token. You can also change the cache time on your form token.
Let’s look at another anti-spam tool in Method #2.

Google’s reCAPTCHA is probably the best-known CAPTCHA service out there. It automatically detects human visitors using puzzles, or by detecting their behavior while they’re on your site.
This can be very effective in blocking spam contact form submissions from bots.
By verifying that a human user is submitting a form, all automated spam attempts are blocked. The added security of a reCAPTCHA can also make users feel that the form is secure and help reduce form abandonment.

There are 3 versions of Google reCAPTCHA, and you can use any of these in WPForms.
Here’s a basic rundown of the differences between contact form spam prevention methods:

Checkbox reCAPTCHA v2 lets visitors hover their mouse over a checkbox to submit the form. This is called a ‘challenge’, and it usually displays with the words ‘I am not a robot’ next to it.
Invisible reCAPTCHA v2 doesn’t show a checkbox. Instead, the reCAPTCHA service detects user activity to decide if the visitor is human. This is a great way to prevent spam without showing a challenge every time.
reCAPTCHA v3 is an advanced CAPTCHA that uses JavaScript to detect human visitors. It’s ideal for AMP pages, but it can occasionally prevent genuine visitors from submitting your forms. That’s why we recommend it for advanced users who are ready to troubleshoot if they run into any issues.

All of these reCAPTCHA types are free for up to 1 million uses per month.
In the next section of the guide, we’re going to look at setting up reCAPTCHA on your forms.
Select a reCAPTCHA Type in WPForms
We’re going to start by selecting the type of Google reCAPTCHA you want to use in the WPForms plugin.
To start, open up your WordPress dashboard and go to WPForms » Settings.

Then, look to the tabs across the top. Click on the CAPTCHA tab.

You’ll see the options for CAPTCHAs on this page.
Click on the reCAPTCHA icon in the center of the page.

Now you’ll want to scroll down a little more until you see the reCAPTCHA settings. These settings are the same for all of the forms you make on your site.
First, you’ll see the 3 different reCAPTCHA types that we talked about already:

Checkbox reCAPTCHA v2
Invisible reCAPTCHA v2
reCAPTCHA v3

Select the reCAPTCHA method you want to use using the radio buttons.

Let’s switch over to the reCAPTCHA site and get your keys set up.
Set Up Google reCAPTCHA
Next, we’re going to switch over to the reCAPTCHA website to add your site there.
To start, visit Google’s reCAPTCHA site. You’ll want to open this link in a new tab or window so you can easily switch back to WPForms in a few minutes.
Once you’re on the reCAPTCHA homepage, click on the Admin Console button at the top.

You might need to sign in to your Google account at this point.
After that, you’ll be redirected to a page where you can register your site for reCAPTCHA.
To start, enter the name of your website in the label field. This is for your own use, so you can type in a name or the full domain name – whatever you prefer. The label here will help you identify the keys later.

Then, choose the type of reCAPTCHA you want to add to your website.
If you want to use reCAPTCHA v3, you’ll just have to click the top radio button here.

If you decide you want to use reCAPTCHA v2, select that radio button first. Then select either the ‘I am not a robot’ checkbox or the invisible reCAPTCHA.

In this example, we’ll use the Checkbox method to show you how the form settings work. If you choose a different reCAPTCHA type, some of the screenshots from this point might look slightly different.

After choosing your reCAPTCHA, you’ll need to add your website’s domain. This time, you’ll want to type in the full domain name without the leading https://

Go ahead and click the Accept checkbox if you’re happy to proceed. You can also receive alerts about your reCAPTCHA by clicking the second checkbox.

Click Submit to save your progress so far.
Grab Your reCAPTCHA Keys
Before we go ahead and copy your reCAPTCHA keys, there’s 1 super important thing to remember.
Each of these reCAPTCHA methods uses different types of keys. So if you start out using a certain type of Google reCAPTCHA, then you decide to switch to a different type, you’ll need to generate new keys to match.
Let’s pick up from the last step. You should see a notice saying your site has been registered with reCAPTCHA. Underneath, you’ll see a site key and secret key for your website.

Switch back to the WPForms » Settings page we were looking at in the last step. You can go ahead and paste your site and secret keys under the reCAPTCHA settings.

To finish up, there are a couple of other settings in WPForms. Let’s quickly look at what those mean:

Fail Message – This field lets you customize the message that appears if reCAPTCHA stops the form from being submitted.
No-Conflict Mode – Sometimes other plugins can also try to load reCAPTCHA code. If this happens, you might see a message like ‘This field is required’, even though all required fields are filled in. To avoid this problem, you should deactivate reCAPTCHA in all of your other plugins. But if the problem persists, you can check the No-Conflict Mode checkbox to force disable other reCAPTCHAs.

All set? Click on the Save Settings button to store your changes.
Now you’re ready to add the reCAPTCHA to your contact form to stop spam.
Add the reCAPTCHA to Your Online Form
Now we need to switch back to the form builder so we can enable reCAPTCHA on your form.
First, open up your form in the form builder.

Look to the Standard Fields on the left and click on the reCAPTCHA field.
In case you’re wondering how this works, you don’t need to drag the reCAPTCHA onto your form. You can just click on the field once to activate the reCAPTCHA.

A message will pop up to confirm that reCAPTCHA is enabled on your form. Click OK.

Great! You’ll see the reCAPTCHA badge in the form builder to show that reCAPTCHA is active on this form.

This badge won’t show on your finished form when you publish it. Don’t forget to save your form now.
And that’s it! Now you know how to add a v2 or v3 Google reCAPTCHA to stop contact form spam. If you ever want to disable reCAPTCHA on your form, just edit the form and click the reCAPTCHA field again to turn it off.
Next up, we’ll show you how to use hCaptcha. This is an awesome alternative to reCAPTCHA if you’re looking for a different way to show a challenge.

With WPForms, you can easily use hCaptcha to stop contact form spam.
The hCaptcha service is a great way to stop spam bots in their tracks by showing your visitors a challenge. If the challenge isn’t completed, the form won’t submit and the spambot will get stuck.

Wondering about the difference between Google reCAPTCHA and hCaptcha? There are 3 main reasons why hCaptcha might be a good fit for your site:

Improve privacy on your website – Some site owners use hCaptcha because of privacy concerns about reCAPTCHA. If you’re worried that Google might retarget ads to your visitors, hCaptcha will be a better choice for you because it collects less data about them.
Get paid for CAPTCHAs – When your visitors solve challenges on your forms, hCaptcha will pay you a small reward each time. This might be helpful if you have a busy site with lots of form submissions.
Support charities – If you want, you can donate the earnings from your hCaptcha account to charity automatically.

Just like reCAPTCHA, hCaptcha is free for basic use. The main downside of the free version is that there’s no invisible CAPTCHA option. But there’s an Easy mode that you can use if you want to minimize the number of CAPTCHAs your visitors see.
It’s super easy to use hCaptcha in WPForms. The steps are very similar to the Google reCAPTCHA settings we already showed you.
Let’s dive in and set it up.
Set Up hCaptcha in WPForms
Have you installed the WPForms plugin and created a simple contact form?
Great! You’re ready to add hCaptcha.
We’ll start in your WordPress dashboard. On the left, go to WPForms » Settings.

From the tabs across the top, click CAPTCHA.

Now click on the hCaptcha icon.

You’ll see the settings for hCaptcha displayed underneath. Let’s go ahead and set up your keys in the next step.
Generate hCaptcha Keys
In this step, we’re going to sign up for hCaptcha and grab your site keys. Keep WPForms open in another tab so we can easily switch back to it in a minute.
Start by opening up the hCaptcha site in a new tab. Then click the Sign Up button at the top.

To select the free plan, click the button under Add hCaptcha to your service (free).

Set up your login and sign in now. Then, at the top right, click the New Site button.

Start by typing in your site name at the top. After typing the name, you’ll need to press the enter key to save the name before you can move on. You can click the pencil icon to make changes.

In the next field, type in your site domain and click Add new domain.

The slider underneath lets you choose the difficulty of the CAPTCHA. Here’s some information to help you decide what to pick here:

Easy mode tries to validate the user without showing a challenge.  And if a challenge is shown, it’ll be the easiest type and will take a few seconds to solve. This is as close to an ‘invisible’ CAPTCHA as you can get with hCaptcha.
Moderate is similar to Easy but a little less lenient when detecting activity. Your visitors will likely see more challenges with this setting, but it’s a little more secure.
Difficult will almost always show a challenge. The challenge will also take a little longer to solve than the Easy or Moderate setting.
Always On will force every visitor to solve a ‘difficult’ CAPTCHA before submitting your form to stop contact form spam. This might affect the user experience, but it’s the most secure method.

If you’re not sure what to pick, we’d recommend starting with the Easy or Moderate setting. This helps to make your CAPTCHA easy to solve while still offering bot protection.
If you find you’re still getting spam, you can go back and increase the difficulty.

The next section lets you choose the kind of CAPTCHAs that your visitors will see. You can choose themes that are similar to the topics on your site.
This is a neat way to make the puzzles a little easier. You don’t have to use this section if you don’t want to, so just skip over it nothing fits.

And that’s it! Now you’ll want to scroll back up to the top and click Save.

Now it’s time to copy your keys into WordPress.
Grab Your hCaptcha Keys
Remember the WPForms tab we kept open? In this step, we’re going to grab the keys from hCaptcha and paste them into WPForms.
In hCaptcha, you’ll see the site you just added under Active Sites. On the right, click Settings.

Now copy the site key and paste it into the Site Key field in WPForms.

The Secret Key is located in the settings tab, so we’ll need to leave this screen.
Back in hCaptcha, click cancel to go back to the previous page.

And now click the Settings tab.

You’ll see your Secret Key at the top. Go ahead and copy it, then paste it into WPForms.

In WPForms, you should now have your hCaptcha Site Key and Secret Key ready to go.

There are 2 more settings underneath that you might want to use:

Fail Message – Customize the message that appears if hCaptcha stops the form being submitted.
No-Conflict Mode – Sometimes other plugins can also try to load CAPTCHA code. If this happens, you might see an error. To avoid this problem, you should deactivate hCaptcha in all of your other plugins. But if the problem persists, you can check the No-Conflict Mode checkbox to force disable any conflicting hCaptcha code.

Click Save to save your hCaptcha keys.
Now we’re done with the settings, let’s enable hCaptcha on your form.
Add hCaptcha to Your WordPress Form
Now you can turn on hCaptcha for your form. Start by opening WPForms in the WordPress dashboard and clicking Edit under the form name.
The form will open up in a fullscreen window.

Look to the Standard Fields on the left and click on the hCaptcha field.
In case you’re wondering how this works, you don’t need to drag the field onto your form. You’ll just need to click on the field once to turn on hCaptcha.

A message will pop up to confirm that you’ve turned on hCaptcha for this form. Click OK.

Great! Now you’ll see the hCaptcha logo to confirm that everything’s working.

The hCaptcha logo won’t show up on your published form. It only shows in the form builder as a reminder that hCaptcha is active.
And that’s it! Now you know how to add hCaptcha easily to stop contact form spam. If you ever want to disable it on your form, just edit the form and click the hCaptcha field.
Next up, we’ll show you how to make your own CAPTCHA with WPForms.

Are you still getting spam with reCAPTCHA or hCaptcha?
You can use the WPForms Custom CAPTCHA addon to create your own challenge.
With this addon, you can set up custom questions or use random math puzzles as a CAPTCHA to fight spam form submissions.
This method is easy and quick to set up and doesn’t need any site keys.
Add a Custom CAPTCHA Field in WPForms
First, open up your form in the form builder.

Now, scroll down to the Fancy Fields section. If you haven’t used Custom CAPTCHA before, you’ll notice that the field is grayed out.

Click on the Custom CAPTCHA button once.
You’ll see a popup asking you to install the addon. Click Yes, Install and Activate.

After the installation is complete, click Yes, Save and Refresh.

Your Custom CAPTCHA addon is now active and ready to be added to your form.
Set Up Your Custom CAPTCHA Questions
Once you’ve created a contact form, stay in the form builder to add your custom CAPTCHA questions.
First, drag the Custom CAPTCHA field from the left-hand panel to the right-hand panel to add it to your form. When you click on the field, you’ll see the settings open up on the left.

The form field will automatically display a random math question for site visitors to answer before they can submit their form on your site. A new math problem (addition, subtraction, or multiplication) will appear every time the page loads or refreshes.
If you’d like to know how to customize the questions, check out our documentation on how to change the math CAPTCHA.
If you prefer to use a custom question and answer instead of the math CAPTCHA, change the type to Question and Answer in the Field Options section.

There, you can also change the question and answer that site visitors have to type out a response to in order to submit their form on your site.
If you want to display random questions and answers every time your page loads or refreshes, click on the (+) button to add another question and answer.
Click Save when you’ve customized your custom CAPTCHA to your liking.
CAPTCHAs are great at stopping automated scripts and spam bots. But what if you have a persistent human spammer using your forms?
Let’s look at a way to block those users.

Sometimes we all get spam submissions from human visitors. Sales teams and scammers can visit your forms over and over again, manually sending you tons of spam emails.
CAPTCHAs don’t stop these spam messages because the spammers are real visitors.
In WPForms, you can easily block or allow a list of email addresses so that these visitors can’t submit new entries anymore.

Each form has its own allowlist and denylist, and you can have custom settings for each one.
Let’s take a look at stopping contact form spam with a blocklist in WPForms.
Edit Your Form
Start in the WordPress dashboard.
In WPForms, find the form you want to add a denylist to. Then click Edit under the name of the form.

Next, you’ll want to click on the Email field on your form to open up the settings for the field.
Go ahead and click Advanced Options to expand this section.

Now that Advanced Options is open, you’ll see lots of extra settings for the email field. Let’s choose the email blocking method you want to use.
Set Up Your Allowlist or Denylist
WPForms lets you set up email restrictions in 2 ways:

The Allowlist will only allow specified email addresses to submit your form. This is a great option if you want to allow entries from a small group of people, like users from your own domain.
The Denylist will block email addresses or domains you specify. This helps to block persistent spammers, domains, or parts of domains.

To see how this works, scroll down and click the Allowlist / Denylist dropdown. Choose which method you want to use on this form.
We’ll select Denylist in this example.

In the box underneath, type in the email addresses you want to block to stop contact form spam.
You can type a complete email, or use an asterisk * to create a partial match.

This setting is super powerful. You can create partial matches in any format you like. Here are a few examples you can try:

[email protected] – the exact specified email address will be blocked
spammer* – this blocks all email addresses starting with ‘spammer’
*@example.com – blocks all email addresses at the example.com domain
s*@example.com – this blocks all email addresses starting with the letter ‘s’ at the example.com domain
[email protected],[email protected],spammer@*.co.uk – blocks the first 2 email addresses, and creates a partial match with the 3rd.

You can add as many comma-separated emails or partial matches as you need, and place the asterisk anywhere you want.
When you have your denylist set up, save your form.
Test Your New Allowlist or Denylist
After saving your form, it’s a good idea to test out the denylist or allowlist on the frontend.
When you type in an email you’ve blocked, you’ll see an error message and the form won’t submit.
If you want to change the message that shows up for blocked email addresses, you can customize it easily. Just open up WPForms » Settings in the WordPress dashboard and click the Validation tab.

If you still get spammy submissions, there’s 1 more option to try.

If you’re getting spam submissions from human visitors, it can be tricky to block them. Human-submitted contact form messages are a slightly different type of spam that CAPTCHAs typically don’t block.
To deal with it, you can use a code snippet to block specific words or phrases in the paragraph or single line text fields in WPForms. This is a great way to block abusive messages, but you can also use it to block other words of your choice.

Use this option with care. It’ll block all submissions containing the words you add to the snippet, so you’ll want to be very specific to avoid blocking legitimate messages.
To block a specific word, read this developer doc on how to block form submissions containing profanity. You can adapt the code snippet in the doc to block any word that the spammer uses frequently, like a company name.

Another way you can block spammers that have bypassed your CAPTCHA is by blacklisting their IP addresses.
In WordPress, every user comment automatically leaves an IP address. If you’re repeatedly seeing similar IP addresses attacking your site with spam, you can simply blacklist these IPs on your site.
To do so, open your WordPress dashboard and click on Settings » Discussion on your left. Now, enter the IP addresses you want to block in the Disallowed Comment Keys text field (only one IP address per line).

This is an effective way of blocking repeat human spammers that are slipping through your CAPTCHAs.
And that’s it! Now you know all of the ways WPForms helps to stop contact form spam.
PS. Did you know that WPForms Lite has a lot more anti-spam tools than Contact Form 7? Check out this head-to-head review of WPForms Lite vs Contact Form 7 to see the huge differences between these 2 plugins.

You’re all set! Now you know all of the ways to stop contact form spam in WordPress.
But here’s another issue: how do you stop legitimate emails from WordPress from going to the junk mail folder? This is a common complaint with contact forms, and it can be frustrating for you and your visitors.
Email deliverability is a really common issue with WordPress, but it’s very easy to fix. Check out this guide on why your WordPress emails are going to spam (and how to fix it).
Prevent Form Spam With WPForms Now
Ready to build your spam-free contact form? Get started today with the easiest WordPress form builder plugin. WPForms Pro includes lots of free templates and offers a 14-day money-back guarantee.
If this article helped you out, please follow us on Facebook and Twitter for more free WordPress tutorials and guides.


Menu
Search










Our Work


SERVICES



Digital Strategy
Marketing
Web Design & Development
Custom Software Applications




Industries



Non-Profit
Manufacturing
Professional Services
Legal
Small Business




ABOUT US


Blog


Contact

Search














logo






Our Work


SERVICES



Digital Strategy
Marketing
Web Design & Development
Custom Software Applications




Industries



Non-Profit
Manufacturing
Professional Services
Legal
Small Business




ABOUT US


Blog


Contact

Search












Company123
Blog
Contact






Home
Work
Services













Home



Blog



How to Prevent Website Spam






























 
By Annie Pacella 08/28/2020 10:30 AM


                    

 Inbound Marketing | Technology


 0 Comments



















Receiving email spam submissions can be extremely time-consuming and something many domain owners deal with. It's time to take preventative precautions to clear out the rubbage and focus on the rich leads. 
There are many reasons why having spam emails cloud your inbox but it takes your time & effort away from qualified leads and those that genuinely need to get in touch with you.
If you don’t take the time to clean up/stop spam submissions you run the risk of hurting your brand’s reputation if these corrupting messages end up on the frontend of your website for new site visitors to see.

In technical terms, form spam happens when malicious entities or back actors submit unwanted information through online forms to phish or send abusive messages.
In simpler terms, form spam is when unwanted messages make their way through your website’s forms, oftentimes without you even noticing.

You might be thinking to yourself that form spam shouldn’t be an issue these days. After all, traditional email spam is for the most part under control thanks to advanced spam filters designed to block spam messages.
These emails arrive in people’s inboxes looking like emails you might send. Then, people unknowingly open and even click through to what they believe will be your website, only to find themselves on an entirely different site.
Therefore the spam can happen vice-versa. 

 


A spambot is a malicious program designed to gather email addresses and information from online sources like forms, chat rooms and websites. This information is usually collected in order to build lists for sending an unsolicited email - spam. Since emails have a distinctive format, it's easy to create such a bot. Sadly, it's much harder to avoid them.

1. Keep your domain private. You may not realize this but when you registered your website’s domain name (the www.YourName.com), if you didn’t make it private then your email address is public record. All domain names have a record where your email address is on file and can be looked up by anyone in many cases for free. 
2. Use a honeypot. A honeypot is a hidden question on your online form, that when it gets filled out you know it was a spam bot that filled out the form.
3. Block bad countries. Unfortunately, there are some countries that seem to have a lot of bad actors. If your website’s audience is primarily only US-based or a few countries, then you may want to block all other countries from viewing your website. 
4. Use CAPTCHA on your forms. Adding a CAPTCHA to your forms is a great way to prevent spam bots from filling out your website’s forms and sending your spam. If you’re not sure what a CAPTCHA is, it’s a challenge question or image to verify that you’re actually a human fill out a form online. 
5. Prevent email harvesting. If you list your email address on your website, chances are it’s being harvested by email spam bot programs. One way is to replace your email with an image of your email. Since these bots can only read text they won’t be able to read your email address, and humans can still see it. 

 

When you set up a form you should know that it takes a person around 3-5 seconds to fill it out. They need to type in their email address, their name, and other information you have requested from them and click the button to confirm their subscription.
The key finding here is that a human takes time to input all this data. However, bots are not constricted to the passing of time. They fill out the form instantly. 
It can be a great way to initially verify all the registered email addresses by monitoring the passage of time since a person clicked on a specific section or accessed the page with the form. You can also adjust the time depending on your personal needs. If you have more forms, how many fields are there to fill out.
All this should be considered while setting up the time cut-off. There is a downside that you should take into consideration. Having an autocomplete options lets user's databases to automatically fill in the contact questions they are used too.
This makes the process a bit time consuming but if your forms require additional information/work, this can be very beneficial. 
 
Quick Facts
How do I know I have website spam?

If you're getting an influx of emails with no pure details or questions, this is a strong sign. As a brand, you want to focus in on customers and make sure their questions are being answered first.

If I don't have spam right now, should I still implement a plan?

Yes! If your website grows popularity, say overnight, you will want to implement one of the 5 tactics above to ensure accuracy in SEO conversions.

 
Looking to add a contact form to your website? Contact Blue Archer today. 


Blue Archer





Back To List








Search










Tags

Analytics
Blogging
Blue Archer
Client How-Tos
Content
Digital Marketing
Healthcare
Inbound Marketing
Law
Manufacturing
News
Non-Profit
Pittsburgh
Professional Services
SEO
Small Business
Social Media
Software
Technology
Traditional Marketing
User-experience
Web Design


Latest Blog Posts

How Long Should It Take To Write a Blog Post?
Add This One Thing To Your Blogs to Skyrocket Readership
How to 10X Your Conversion Rate with this Simple SEO Tip


Rss


Rss Archive

















Login   
			Register



			Please Login to post a comment     

		

      














The Best SEO Chrome Extensions
Modern Website Navigation Examples
























 


 
 
 




1. Call 412.353.1050, extension 1
2. Complete the quick contact form to the right
3. Launch our project planner to begin the discussion

 











Name*



Email*



Phone*





Comments



Source_Page__c



Email

This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.














A few details about your project and goals is the first step towards identifying a solution that's right for you.

Launch Planner




 





CONTACT INFO
Looking for a web designer in Pittsburgh?
 
5808 Bryant Street, Floor 2
Pittsburgh, PA 15206
 
Mailing Address: 
PO Box 97248
Pittsburgh, PA 15229
 
info@bluearcher.com

Support (Current Clients): (412) 353-1050
New Project Inquiries:
(412) 353-1048
 
Monday - Friday, 9AM - 5PM


Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram





Fresh Off the Blog Press
How Long Should It Take To Write a Blog Post?
A profitable marketer spends the amount of time needed to fulfill the topic's demand. These writing times may var...
Read the post
Add This One Thing To Your Blogs to Skyrocket Readership
Do you know the average reading speed? With a little encouragement and transparency in acknowledging the average read...
Read the post
More from our blog




Latest Tweets
Tweets by @bluearcherpgh 






©2021 Blue Archer  Site Map Privacy Policy


Attorney General's Office | In Your Corner Kansas | Kansas Bureau of Investigation (KBI) | Amber Alerts






Search Box
Search for: 





















HomeYOUR Identity

What is identity theft?How can I protect myself from ID theft?What should I do if my identity is stolen?How can I guard against a data breach?What should I do if my data is breached?How do I get a security freeze?Can I place a security freeze for my minor child?

YOUR Money

What do I do if there is inaccurate information on my credit report?How can I make sure I'm using my credit card safely?Should I pay off debt that I did not know I owe?Should I wire money to someone I do not know?How do I know if the charity I'm giving to is legitimate?Did I really win a foreign lottery?I have an unauthorized charge on my bank account or credit card. What do I do?What are pyramid schemes and why are they illegal?

YOUR Home & Car

Recovering from Storm DamageIs your roofing contractor registered as required by law?How can I be sure I'm getting a good deal on home repairs?Are door-to-door sales legal?I'm facing foreclosure. What can I do?

Beware of Mortgage Modification ScamsKnow Your Redemption RightsForeclosure TimelineForeclosure Prevention Tips

What should I look for in a moving company?How do I stop junk mail?How can I stay safe when buying a car?What is the Lemon Law?Why are gas prices so high?

YOUR Communication

What are Kansas telemarketing laws?How do I register for the Do-Not-Call list?How can I avoid telephone scams?How do I choose a cell phone provider?What is cramming?How can I stay safe online?How can I keep my kids safe online?Is it safe to buy things online?Is it safe to buy medicine online?What is phishing?How can I stop spam emails? Are online piracy sites dangerous? 

YOUR Family

Are medical discount cards a good deal?How do I designate someone as a power of attorney?Military FamiliesSenior Consumer Protection Advisory Council

YOUR Travel

Is this vacation package a good deal or a scam?Are timeshares a good investment?How do I keep my home safe while I'm away?

Action Center

File A ComplaintSign up for the Do-Not-Call ListRequest a PresentationCheck your Roofer's Registration

Events

National Consumer Protection Week

Resources

Consumer PublicationsConsumer NewsConsumer Corner ColumnConsumer Judgments

Roofer Enforcement Actions

Door-to-Door Sales InjunctionsAnnual ReportsRoofing Registration DirectoryMediation ProgramInternet Crime Complaint Center Press ReleasesRecent RecallsState v. ParcellsContact UsCharitable Organization Registration Directory















Home/ YOUR Communication/ How can I stop spam emails?








Unwanted emails, or "spam," can be more than just an annoyance. They can lead to scams or identity theft. Here are a few simple steps to cut down on your spam, and reduce your chances of becoming a victim.

Report spam to your email provider. Most email services today have spam filters to send your junk mail to a separate folder. Use the "Report spam" feature offered by your service provider to help strengthen these filters and reduce the amount of spam that ends up in your inbox.
Consider using multiple accounts. To protect your primary email address from spam, consider using a separate account for online shopping, newsletter or other services that require you to provide an email address. Share your personal email only with trusted friends and family members.
Unsubscribe from unwanted newsletters. The CAN-SPAM Act requires email marketers to include a link to unsubscribe in all emails. These unsubscribe requests must be honored within 10 days.
Remove yourself from commercial email lists. The Email Preference Service from the Direct Marketing Association allows you to request removal from national email lists. Go to www.dmachoice.org to register the email addresses you wish to have removed.
File a complaint. If you lost money to a scam in a spam email, file a complaint with the attorney general's office.







What are Kansas telemarketing laws?

How do I register for the Do-Not-Call list?

How can I avoid telephone scams?

How do I choose a cell phone provider?

What is cramming?

How can I stay safe online?

How can I keep my kids safe online?

Is it safe to buy things online?

Is it safe to buy medicine online?

What is phishing?

How can I stop spam emails?

 Are online piracy sites dangerous? 
















File a Complaint






Register for the 
Do Not Call List





Request a Presentation




Internet Safety


FBI Internet CrimeComplaint Center


OnGuard Online





Kansas Telemarketing Laws

	PDF, 271.46 KB



		Last updated on 9/24/2019
	








(?)






















Avoiding Romance Scams

	PDF, 641.26 KB



		Last updated on 8/27/2019
	








(?)






















Avoiding the Grandparent Scam

	PDF, 711.75 KB



		Last updated on 8/27/2019
	








(?)






















Avoiding Time Share Scams

	PDF, 848.79 KB



		Last updated on 8/27/2019
	








(?)






















Helpful Consumer Contacts

	PDF, 221.35 KB



		Last updated on 1/14/2019
	








(?)






















Security Breaches

	PDF, 783.43 KB



		Last updated on 8/17/2017
	








(?)






















Protect Yourself from Identity Theft

	PDF, 191.75 KB



		Last updated on 7/12/2013
	








(?)






















Cramming

	PDF, 65.68 KB



		Last updated on 5/7/2013
	








(?)






















Power of Attorney

	PDF, 1.62 MB



		Last updated on 5/2/2013
	








(?)






















Pre-Paid Calling Cards

	PDF, 142.25 KB



		Last updated on 10/4/2011
	








(?)
























12
Next »




 
 





























Accessibility Policy |
Contact Web Master |
Terms of Use |
Sitemap | EEO
© 2011 - 2023 Kansas Attorney General Derek Schmidt

120 SW 10th Ave, 2nd Floor, Topeka, KS 66612-1597   •   (785) 296-2215


Maybe you're opening up your inbox every morning and realizing that you don't recognize as many of the sender names as you used to, or maybe you're finding yourself spending more and more time deleting and archiving messages coming your way, regardless of what exactly you're experiencing, you've likely noticed the issue — there's more spam than there used to be. And it's not just you, spam emails are on the rise across the board and people are struggling to find ways to stop spam email. As many of the free email services we use day to day are getting older, more spam than usual has been able to get through their automatic filters. Spam messages are getting smarter and the standard filters are having a hard time keeping up. Unfortunately spam emails are more than simple annoyances, they can also be incredibly dangerous. Phishing emails from these spam messagers are created to trick you into handing over sensitive information or even download dangerous malware. For those wondering to themselves, "Why am I getting spam emails?" the answer is quite simply that spam emails are more profitable now than ever before. No longer the Nigerian prince emails of old, many of these spam messagers send targeted messages pretending to be legitimate companies such as Netflix or DHL to convince you to hand over your credit card information. This dangerous rise in phishing emails leaves recipients like you asking what you can do to manage and even stop spam email. Luckily there are some steps you can take to protect yourself from the dangers of spam emails.




Despite all the spam fighting software in the world today, one of the best steps you can take to stop spam email from causing you any harm is simply by slowing down to inspect the message and ensure that it's legitimate. These steps include checking the sender, figuring out what they're asking for, and determining if the offer is too good to be true.Email spammers have gotten smarter about formatting their missives so they appear to be legitimate. They may feature the logo of a company you frequently purchase from or may be formatted to look exactly like a previous email you've received. However there's a good chance they may have neglected to change the email sender name.So if you receive a message claiming your credit card is overdrafted or that an item you didn't order is en route, you should first check to see who the sender is. There's a high likelihood that it's an address along the lines of deals@123864.com or even a slight misspelling of the spoofed sender. Regardless, it can be helpful to copy and search for that email sender on Google to see if anyone else has dealt with spam messages from that specific sender. While this may not stop you from getting spam emails, this can definitely help you protect yourself from them.One of the telltale signs of a spam email is that they often ask for sensitive personal information such as your credit card number or social security number right off the bat. These phishing scams will often impersonate companies you regularly purchase from with claims that you need to re-enter your credit card information, that your account has been hacked, or that an item you never purchased is in transit. These emails will often have an urgent tone to them so that you drop caution to the wind and immediately provide the information they've requested. These scams may also pretend to be a government agency offering a certain amount of money as long as the recipient either provides their checking account information or sends the agency money first.We covered many of the most common phishing scams from the last couple years in our 2020 phishing epidemic blog so you can arm yourself with knowledge that keeps you from falling for a phishing attempt.If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. This unfortunately goes doubly for any offer you see in your inbox. Another scam tactic that many email spammers have adopted is providing an offer that simply sounds so good that the recipient throws caution to the wind and jumps on the chance. Some of the common examples of these types of scams include fake companies selling the newest iPhone for $100 or a $12,000 tax rebate from the government if you first wire them some funds. While this advice won't stop spam email, it'll help you avoid falling for phishing attacks.




While the methods above help you figure out what to do once you've clicked on a spam email, there are some other tips that can help you stop getting spam emails in general. Whether it's by using software meant to block spam, avoiding any interaction, or even using an alternate address, there are various methods you can employ to stop spam email from invading your inbox because quite frankly we all need help when trying to stop spam emails. Hotmail, Outlook, Gmail, Yahoo, it doesn't matter which email service you have, you can likely do with a helping hand.
As spam email is such a big issue today, there's an entire industry of software products built to help those trying to figure out how to stop spam emails for good. These software products often work with your existing email service provider as an additional layer of spam control on top of the ones that already come standard with the email service and can be one of the best ways to stop spam emails. Edison Mail is a similar email spam filter software that protects you from the dangers of email spam. Edison Mail offers a premium add-on called Edison Mail+ which proactively warns you of any malicious emails as they enter your inbox. This feature conducts four levels of deep-scanning to verify whether or not the message is authentic or if the sender's address has been found in a spam database. Edison Mail+ is designed to offer protection for the 98% of emails that are otherwise unchecked.Just as people advise you to not pick up any spam callers as picking up alerts them that the phone number is in use, you should avoid clicking on any suspected spam emails as often as possible. Many emails from spammers come with spy pixels embedded within them that alert the sender of any opens or clicks on the message. If you open one of these emails it's likely that that's exactly what the spam sender needed to confirm that the email address is still in use and can be targeted in the future. However if you accidentally opened the message without realizing, hope isn't lost. Just make sure that you never click on any links or attachments that came with the email.If you're still wondering, "why am I getting spam emails?" there's a good chance that your email address may be viewable by the public. Just as you wouldn't leave your phone number listed publicly, you should avoid having your email address readily available for the general public. Spammers can use bots to troll through social media in order to collect as many of these email addresses as possible.To make sure that your email address is hidden, check your social media accounts to ensure that your email address is only visible to yourself or close contacts.For some reason if you need to have your email address visible to the general public (i.e. if you're a journalist who gets tips via your email) you can cut down on the amount of spam you receive by reformatting your address. Instead of john.smith@gmail.com, write something along the lines of john [dot] smith [at] gmail.A final option that works as a last ditch effort for many is simply creating a brand new email address. You can use one address as the address you provide when you're online shopping or need to provide your email address for one offer or another, and use the other address for more personal matters. With a throwaway address receiving the bulk of your spam messages, it's much easier to ignore them.Luckily if you'd like to keep on top of both addresses without having to toggle between apps, there are good options for you. Edison Mail is one of these email management solutions that helps you keep multiple email addresses in a single place. You can view them as a single unified inbox or switch between the two with a single tap.
 














Much like other big email services, Outlook has algorithms that filter out spam and junk mail. But as spammers have gotten smarter, these filters simply aren't enough anymore and many spam messages make it through the cracks. For those looking for how to stop spam emails on Outlook, there are a few simple steps you can follow.How to mark emails as spam in Outlook:1. Select the box next to the spam email.2. Click Junk located on the top toolbar.3. Select Block, Spam, or Junk.From then on, all messages from that individual should never make it to your inbox again. You can also utilize this same method to stop spam emails in your Hotmail account as well.Deleting the spam/junk messages that were caught in Outlook's junk algorithm follows a similarly simple set of steps.How to delete spam from Outlook:1. Select the Junk Email tab on the lefthand side of your inbox screen.2. Click the metal trash can to empty the folder.Following these steps should help you stop spam emails on Outlook for good.




Gmail has made it similarly simple to stop spam emails on your Gmail account.How to mark emails as spam in Gmail:1. From the inbox view, select the checkbox next to the spam message(s) that made it through the spam filter.2. Select the stop sign with exclamation point located on the top toolbar.From here on out, all messages from that individual should automatically be filtered to your spam folder.Deleting these spam messages for good follows a similar set of steps.How to delete spam from Gmail:1. Click the Spam folder located on the lefthand navigation bar.2. Select "Delete all spam messages now."Just like that, all of the spam messages you've received will be gone forever. Following these steps should help users like you who are searching for how to stop spam emails on Gmail accounts.




Yahoo Mail users who are tired of spam and junk mail proliferating their Yahoo Mail app have several different options to stop email spam on Yahoo. How to mark emails as spam in Yahoo:1. From your inbox, click on the checkbox next to the spam email(s).2. Select the shield Spam icon located at the top.From then on, all messages from that sender should go straight to your Yahoo spam email folder and away from your main inbox. Deleting these messages from your Yahoo spam email folder is an equally simple process.How to delete spam from Yahoo:1. Navigate to the spam folder in the left-hand pane.2. Select the checkbox next to the messages followed by the trash Delete icon at the top.Now all the spam messages you've received in your Yahoo mail account will be gone forever. Following these two sets of instructions every time spam messages make it past the Yahoo spam algorithms is the simplest way to answer the question, "how to stop spam emails on Yahoo?"




Edison Mail has been working from the start to keep your inbox as free from spam emails as possible. We're the pioneers of one-tap unsubscribe because we feel that it should take minimal effort to clean your inbox of unnecessary senders. In addition to that, we've continued to improve our lauded Block Sender feature, which allows users to block any sender from ever entering their inbox again with a single tap. Both of these features work in tandem to help you keep your inbox clean of spammy senders.Beyond those spam-fighting features, Edison Mail also automatically blocks all malicious spy pixels from ever tracking you. These spy pixels are everywhere from retail emails to dangerous phishing ones to keep track of your movements and actions within an email message. The effect of our automatic spy pixel blocking functions like a built-in email spam filter to keep you safe from any email senders that want to track what you do inside your inbox because we believe that the only eyes in your inbox should be yours.We've also made it even easier to mark messages as spam and block senders you've grown tired of through additional swipe functionalities that you can manage in your Settings Menu.Last, Edison Mail+ offers the first-of-its-kind spam filter feature, known as Verify Sender, to warn you as suspicious emails enter your inbox. Verify Sender works quietly in the background, conducting four levels of deep-scanning to determine whether the email sender is legitimate or a scammer attempting to cause you harm.Edison Mail is quite simply the premier email client to help you stop spam email from being an issue ever again, and can help you whether you're figuring out how to stop spam emails on Gmail, how to stop spam emails on Outlook, or how to stop spam emails on Yahoo.




When we first began creating our OnMail email service, our team thought to ourselves — is there any way to stop spam email from the start? While there are many different solutions to dealing with spam emails, it always felt as if we were playing catch-up. Especially as the number of spam emails proliferating peoples' inboxes only increases day by day, reactive measures only seem to do so much. Then it hit us: OnMail's response to the email spam epidemic needed to be proactive. OnMail's answer to spam email is to stop it before it starts.OnMail's revolutionary Accept Sender works as a free email spam filter. You get to decide who comes in, and who gets your attention. We stop spam before it enters your inbox so your inbox stays clean. As with our Edison Mail apps, we block all spy pixels automatically without degrading your email experience, and you won’t see a targeted ad lurking in your inbox.With OnMail, you can create a new email address or a custom domain of your choice, and access unique, modern email features like send large attachments, split inboxes, receive suggestions of email to unsubscribe and follow up nudges, and more. In addition you can port over your existing accounts into OnMail's ecosystem for free — gaining access to all of OnMail's incredible features for your existing email accounts.OnMail is available for Free, Personal, and Professional email plans on iOS, Android and webmail.Visit onmail.com to learn more


Home
Blog
Contact






















Home

Get Started

Products

Private Email

Naming your email account

Computer Security
Mobile Protection and VPN
Managed Network Security
Digital Vault
Password Manager

Cybersecurity Services

Computer Coaching Services
Private Clients and VIPs
Family Offices
Professionals
Home and Remote Office
Small Business
Education

Workshops and Bootcamps


Support & Resources

Remote Help
Private Email

MFA - Multi-factor Authentication
How to Identify Spoofing
Stopping Spam
About DKIM

Computer Security

Getting Started

Mobile Protection with VPN

Getting started installation video
User's Guide

Managed Network Security

Fast Start Installation

FAQs
ShieldTest for Internet Networks

About

Contact
About Total Digital Security

What We Do
In the News

Cyber Security Newsletter
Calendar
White Papers
Blog
News
Privacy Policy

















false












Private Email Accounts

























For our customers and clients with Private Email accounts by Total Digital Security.
At well over 50% of all email traffic, spam is not going away. Below, is a how to stop spam email guide.

But first, if you use an Apple iOS 13 device, here is a great tip from our customer, Bill B.




open the unwanted email
in From: tap the sender twice
tap "Block this Contact"




 
For broader controls to stopping spam, sign in to your webmail to get started:

In Settings > Spam Settings, manage your blacklisting preferences here:

Warning: Be careful if blacklisting an entire domain or IP addresses. You might unintentionally block wanted and legitimate mail. 
Blacklisting an email address, domain, or IP address, stops mail sent from the source that you specified. 

Using a blacklist can help stop spoofing or spam.


To safe-list a sender see Safelist addresses, domains, and IP addresses in Rackspace email.

For a video tutorial see Email Help - Blacklisting / Safelisting With Email.



Log in to your webmail email box.


Click your email address in the upper right-hand corner, and select Settings from the menu.



Click Spam Settings on the left side of the pop-up box, and the select the Blacklist tab.



In the Blacklisted Domains & Email Addresses box, click Add.


When prompted to Add Blacklisted Domain or Email Address, enter the domain or email address that you want to blacklist in the field under Enter a domain or email address, and then click Add.



Confirm that the address is now listed in the box under Blacklisted Domains & Email Addresses, and click Save.



If you need to blacklist an IP address, follow steps 1-3 in the preceding section, and then complete the following steps:


In the Blacklisted IP Addresses box, click Add.


When prompted to Add Blacklisted IP Address, enter the IP address you want to blacklist in the field under Enter an IP address(or range), and then click Add.



Confirm that the address is now listed in the box under Blacklisted Domains & Email Addresses, and click Save.


Refer to this article for tips.
 

































An introductory video about Total Digital Security, what we do, and how we do it.











 







































The CyberAdvisor Letter






































Total Digital Security(877) 643-6391 hello@totaldigitalsecurity.com7777 Glades Rd. Suite 100Boca Raton, FL 33434










Home
Products
Cybersecurity Services
Support & Resources
About











© 2022 Total Digital Security









MENU


Eyal GoldshmidSpecial to TCPalmView CommentsQ: I am receiving between 30 to 40 junk emails a day in my inbox of late. I take each one and move it to the Junk Mail folder in my email program, but despite doing this I still receive more of them minutes later. Each email appears to be identical and often they arrive in pairs, two of them at exactly the same time. I tried logging into my webmail account on Comcast.net as well and marking them as spam there but also this hasn't helped. I have also tried clicking on the "Unsubscribe" command at the bottom of the emails I receive but when I do my antivirus pops up saying that the website I am about to visit is dangerous and won't load it. I'm not sure what to make of this and it's been going on for a couple of months now. I use Microsoft Edge as my browser and Outlook for my email. Any idea what I can do?  — Dennis L., Jensen BeachA: The behavior above seems to imply that you've fallen victim to either a spam onslaught, a virus infection, a hacking of your email account -- or a combination of all three.In the case of the former, most likely this was caused by your email address being validated to the source of the spam via one of those attempts to "unsubscribe" from one or more of these messages.Either that or one of the pages you clicked on to unsubscribe from the mailing list opened to a launch page for a virus and that caused an infection (as it may have not been halted by your antivirus for one reason or another).It's important to remember that the "Unsubscribe" link often found at the bottom of advertisement emails does not always mean that it will perform that action. In today's world of mailing lists, ghosted identities and database hacks, clicking 'unsubscribe" now seems to serve only as validation of a live email account that can receive more spam, or a means of stealing one's login credentials to use elsewhere, instead of an act of polite removal. As such, unless you absolutely know the source of the email being sent to you, it's now best to delete or mark these emails as Spam instead of trying to stop them from being delivered.Given the propensity of emails you're receiving, the best first step is to contact Comcast Support and inform them of the problem. Ask if they can do anything to help and/or if they can increase the server-side spam protection for your account, as this should be within their capabilities and jurisdiction.In addition, also consider changing the password to your email account (first on your webmail account and then in Outlook) just in case the account has been hacked or the credentials have been leaked.Naturally, if you cannot change your account password, inform Comcast Support of this immediately so they can take action, as this verifies that your account has indeed been compromised.As for the potential virus infection, scan your system again with your existing antivirus again to see what turns up and then perform a scan with eSet via the following URL: https://www.eset.com/us/home/online-scanner/Note: This is a link to the robust free online scanner provided by this company -- there is no need to download the program to perform the scan, just launch the scanner itself from the link above and it takes place within your web browser. It's a very complex scan and will take several hours to complete so be patient with it or choose to run the scan at night when you're done with your system for the day so it will not interfere with your computing sessions.Unfortunately, if the steps above do not help, then consider speaking with a local technician for additional assistance.At the center of the fun blog at alcoholinfusions.com is a feature titled "A Year of Cocktails," which chronicles the site's founders as they progress through all the recipes published in a found copy of "Mr. Boston Official Bartender’s Guide," first published after Prohibition was repealed. Starting with the "Abbey Cocktail" and moving forward alphabetically, the site chronicles both their successes and failures in addition to charting their own attempts at mastering the art of alcoholic infusions (as the site's name suggests) as a means of re-creating the some of phased out spirits listed in some of the book's recipes. As expected, the bevy of entries here are fun, light-hearted and offer plenty of interest for the cocktail enthusiast and historian. Cheers!Contact Eyal Goldshmid @ egoldshmid@yahoo.com.View Comments


Online Tech Tips              



Windows

Windows 10
Windows 8
Windows 7
Windows Vista
Windows XP


Tips

Computer Tips
Google Tips
Internet Explorer Tips
MS Office Tips
Mac OS X
Smart Home
Web Site Tips


Software

Reviews
Free Downloads


Other

Cool Websites
Gadgets
Smartphones
Fun Stuff
Gaming


Youtube
 



Computer Tips
Cool Websites
Smartphones
Software Reviews
MS Office Tips
 Google Tips
Gaming
Windows 10
Gadgets
Smart Home
 Our Network

Help Desk Geek
Switching to Mac
The Back Room Tech
AK Internet Consulting, Inc.


 About Online Tech Tips
Privacy Policy
OTT YouTube Channel
 




Dark mode












Reading: How To Stop Spam Emails From Reaching Your Inbox


            Back To Top
        





Use one or more of these tips simultaneously
 

 

Written by: 
Fionna Agomuoh 

Posted on: May 27th, 2019
in: Computer Tips











 
Email has long been an essential part of our online lives. Pretty much  everything  we do on the internet requires an email address, from login credentials to subscribing to newsletters, to commenting on websites. 
Spam emails are an unfortunate byproduct of the many interactions we have online. While many are harmless and simply congest our inboxes, there are some that can be dangerous scams that should be avoided at all costs. 

Table of Contents




There are several ways to ensure that spam email doesn’t make it into your inbox. Many of the most popular email clients, such as Gmail and Yahoo! Mail, have powerful filters that ensure you don’t see the most malicious spam. But it is still rather easy for other spam to get through, depending on your online activities. 





Here are some tips to help you rid your email inbox
of spam. Many of these methods can be used simultaneously to ensure that your
main inbox remains clean and easy to navigate.

Setting up filters is an older method of dealing with spam, but it still works very well for creating specific paths for unwanted emails. You can use filters for actions other than redirecting or deleting spam, but getting rid of junk mail is often a primary reason to use these functions. 

Most email clients have similar instructions for creating filters. Typically, you will find and select the Settings cog icon, then click Filters and Blocked Addresses and Create a new filter. From here you can fill out the parameters for your filter. 
If you’re getting spam from a particular email address, you can include that as an identifier. You can also fill out options such as the email subject and keywords from the messages that are unique to the spam. After you’ve listed your identifiers, select Create filter. This will bring up a list of functions for your filter. 

For spam, the best option to choose is Delete. This will send any incoming
spam emails directly to your trash folder. Another option to select could be Archive, which will also divert spam
emails from your inbox. 

A similar option to setting up filters is blocking the sender’s address from being able to email you spam. To do this, find the three-dot icon in the upper right corner of a message. 
This will bring down a menu of actions you can use on your email. Select Block “sender’s name”. Confirm the popup warning that any emails from this blocked address will be sent to the spam folder.

If you ever wanted to unblock an email, you can find it in the Filters and blocked email addresses section of settings and simply select Unblock. 

Reporting an email as spam from within the
message is also a quick and easy way to get rid of junk mail when it surfaces
in your inbox. Most popular email clients have several methods for reporting
spam. 

Often there will be an icon that looks like a
stop sign among the main inbox functions at the top of the page. 

If you’ve opened the email you can click the stop sign icon and follow the next instructions, which may include Report spam and Report spam & unsubscribe links. You can also find a report spam option in the three-dot icon in the upper right corner of a message that brings a drop-down menu of actions to use on your email. 

Keep in mind that if you just select report spam it may send that particular email to your junk mailbox, however, you may receive other emails in the future. Selecting report spam & unsubscribe will send the message to your junk mailbox and remove you from whatever email list caused the spam in the first place. 
In addition to spam, you can also report an email if you believe it contains a phishing scam. Phishing scams always try to trick you into giving up personal info like bank account numbers, login credentials, etc. 

If you haven’t opened the email for safety
reasons, you can select the box next to the email subject to highlight it and
then click the stop sign icon. You
can also use this method to report several messages at once. 

Unsubscribing from email lists you no longer wish to follow is an easy way to cut down on spam in your inbox. Many emails will have an option to unsubscribe from a mailing list directly within the text. If you scroll down to the bottom of an email, you should find an Unsubscribe button or link. 

Select it and you will be taken to a webpage in a new tab to confirm that you want to unsubscribe from the email list. Some of these forms are more detailed than others. Some require you to only confirm the email address you wish to remove from a subscription list. 

Other forms will ask you to confirm the
specific list, from which you want to unsubscribe. It may ask for the reason
why you’re removing yourself from the correspondence. Keep in mind that if
you’ve subscribed to the email list of a large company, you may still receive
emails from a sister brand and will have to find those emails and unsubscribe
from the lists separately.  

Many inboxes now also have an unsubscribe option right next to the sender details at the top of the message. Select this option and confirm that you want to unsubscribe.

Many people have multiple email addresses for different reasons, such as separate accounts for business and for private use. It is an excellent option to have a separate email for instances that might invite spam email. Perhaps you can make an old childhood email that you no longer use regularly into your spam email address. 
Many people have old Yahoo! Mail or AOL email addresses that they can access — if they haven’t already been deleted due to inactivity. If you know or can recover the password, you can send all of your erroneous registrations to this address and check it occasionally. Creating a whole new email address is also a very simple process as most popular email clients are free to register. 

Clients such as Gmail allow users to be logged
into multiple accounts at the same time and users can switch between addresses
on desktop and on mobile. This makes it easy to keep a spam email account
without having to log into a new client. 

Throw away or disposable email addresses are a very convenient way of getting an online email address to use without having to set up a new account or try to recover an old service. Most throwaway emails allow you to create an email address to use for various purposes, such as subscribing for some sort of online service or content. 
One popular throw away email service is Mailinator.com. It is an excellent option because it doesn’t require you to register or create an account of any kind to use the service. Simply think of a username and attach it to @mailinator.com to create an email address. Use the address for any kind of online submission that may cause spam. 
Emails will go to the Mailinator inbox and will remain for several hours before they are deleted from the company’s servers. If a mailbox is full, the oldest emails will be deleted to make room for incoming mail. To check the inbox, go to Mailinator.com, type in your username, and select go.

The only caveat about Mailinator is that it houses public inboxes. This means if someone thinks of the same email username they will be able to access the inbox and access your content as well as their own. 
For this reason, it is recommended to try and create a unique username to use for your throwaway email. Don’t use this email for any subscriptions that may include personal information. 

Once you’ve put in place all the measures you
can to keep spam out of your email, you will likely want to get rid of all the
junk mail that was already in your inbox. 
One way to do this is to find the spam through the search mechanism in your inbox and delete the emails in bulk. 

For most email clients, you will be able to see the sender’s email address at the top of the message. Copy this email or copy the part of the address after the @ to grab the domain that was sending you spam. 
Paste this into the search field in your inbox to pull up all of the emails sent from that address, then click the bulk select option and the trashcan or delete button in your inbox. 
If you have several pages of spam from the address you may have to repeat this until all of the emails are clear, but this typically is not a challenging process. If you’re deleting spam from several different sources you will have to repeat the process for each email domain.

Another way to pull up all of your old spam is to use the search shortcut from your inbox main page. Highlight the spam email in your inbox by right-clicking on the subject with your mouse or pressing Control and selecting the subject on your keyboard. 
Select Find emails from sender in the dropdown menu. This will similarly bring up all of the emails sent from that address. Use the same bulk delete function to clear your inbox of old spam. 

Sometimes emails can accidentally end up in a spam folder when they are legitimate emails that you’re expecting to receive. Perhaps someone is sending you a message from a private email client that your inbox cannot identify. 
Perhaps you’ve deleted several emails from a certain address and the algorithms in your inbox determined that the address sending these emails might be spam. Either way, it is a good practice to go through your spam folder every few weeks or months to see if any emails have gotten lost in this section. 

Upon opening the email there should be an
option to mark the message as not spam and move it back to your inbox. This
typically corrects the issue and allows future emails from that address to go
to your inbox. 

You can also select the box next to the email
subject to highlight it and then select the Not spam option among the main spam inbox functions at the top of
the page. 









 


Fionna has been immersed in the world of technology and consumer electronics since 2011. She runs the blog TechieSupreme.com and has worked for publications including International Business Times and Business Insider. Read Fionna's Full Bio







Subscribe on YouTube!

                    Did you enjoy this tip? If so, check out our very own YouTube channel where we cover Windows, Mac, software, and apps, and have a bunch of troubleshooting tips and how-to videos. Click the button below to subscribe!
                


                    Subscribe
                







Read More Posts:



 

How to Fix Disney Plus Error Code 83




 

Samsung Gear S3 Battery Life & Charger Options




 

How To Enable Dark Mode In 14 Google Smartphone Apps




 

Roborock S6 Robot Vacuum Review










 

Daily Email Newsletter 




















Trending Articles11 Best Free Horror Games on SteamHow to Compare Two Excel Files and Highlight the Differences5 Ways to Read Subscription Based Newspaper Articles for Free8 Best Sites to Read Manga Online for FreeGot a Promotion Recently? Congrats, Now Add It to LinkedInHow to Get Your Printer Online If It’s Showing OfflineHow to Reduce the File Size of an Image or Picture8 Best Apps to Download Movies for Free on Android (Updated 2022)


Recent ArticlesHow to Color in Procreate11 Best Indoor and Outdoor TV Antennas for 202215 Games to Play Over Text With Friends10 Techie Gift Ideas for College Students





 
 




Our Publishing Family
	Online Tech Tips is part of the AK Internet Consulting publishing family. 




HELP DESK GEEK


THE BACK ROOM TECH


SWITCHING TO MAC


 

Daily Email Newsletter 

















Connect With Us 

About Online Tech TipsWelcome to Online Tech Tips – A blog that provide readers with daily computer tutorials, technology news, software reviews, and personal computing tips. We have thousands of articles and guides to help you get the most out of technology. Our articles have been read over 275 million times since we launched in 2007.
Read More 




Home
About
Contact
Privacy Policy

Copyright © 2007-2022 Online Tech Tips.com, LLC All Rights Reserved










Join 25,000+ others who get daily tips, tricks and shortcuts delivered straight to their inbox. 
















We will never spam you, unsubscribe at any time.











Do not share my Personal Information.


ProductsDedicatedDedicated ServersBuilt-to-order dedicated infrastructure, customizable for your needs.Cloud Dedicated ServersSingle-tenant, on-demand dedicated infrastructure with cloud features.VMware Private CloudHosted private cloud on enterprise hardware, powered by VMware & NetApp.Server ClustersMulti-server configurations for maximum uptime & performance.HIPAA Compliant HostingHIPAA-compliant solutions to protect your ePHI.View All Products→CloudVMware Private CloudHosted private cloud on enterprise hardware, powered by VMware & NetApp.Cloud Dedicated ServersSingle-tenant, on-demand dedicated infrastructure with cloud features.View All Products→VPSVPS HostingLightning-fast cloud VPS hosting with root access.Private VPS ParentDedicated cloud server that allows you to deploy your own VPS instances.View All Products→CMS & eCommerceManaged WordPressManaged WordPress with image compression and automatic plugin updates.Managed WooCommerceA dedicated platform for WooCommerce stores with an incredible bundle of features.Magento CloudA Managed Magento platform from experts with built in security, scalability, speed & service.Cloud SitesSimple, scalable hosting for multiple sites and apps.View All Products→Enterprise HostingVMware Private CloudHosted private cloud on dedicated infrastructure, powered by VMware & NetApp.High AvailabilityResilient, redundant hosting solutions for mission-critical applications.Server ClustersMulti-server configurations for maximum uptime & performance.Database HostingRedundant servers and data replication to keep critical databases online.High PerformanceMulti-server hosting solutions to reduce latency and prevent downtime.HIPAA Compliant HostingHIPAA-compliant solutions to protect your ePHI.Explore Enterprise Hosting→Add-OnsStorage & BackupsData protection with storage and backup options, including SAN & off-site backups.Security & CompliancePCI and HIPAA compliance, Threat and Intrusion Detection, Firewalls, DDoS, WAFs and more for the highest level of protection.PerformanceLoad balanced or CDN solutions to get your content in front of visitors faster.SoftwareControl panels and add-ons that help you manage your server.EmailFully managed email hosting with premium SPAM filtering and anti-virus software.PCI Compliant HostingMonthly PCI scanning to comply with security standards.Premium WordPress SoftwareStellarWP is home to the most trusted plugins for WordPress.Explore All Add-Ons→Why UsWhy UsFully Managed HostingMore than just servers, we keep your hosting secure and updated.Industry's Best SupportRed Hat Linux, Windows and other certified administrators are here to help 24/7/365.White-Glove MigrationsAn entire team dedicated to help migrate from your current host.Global Data CentersSSAE 16-compliant data centers with Level 3 technicians on-site.About UsFocused on SMBs and their designers, developers and agencies.Our Liquid Web BrandsDevoted to web and cloud professionals like you.PartnersPartnersReferral Partner ProgramBuild longstanding relationships with enterprise-level clients and grow your business.Affiliate & Refer-a-FriendRefer and get paid with the industry’s most lucrative affiliate programs.ResellerOffer your clients best-in-class hosting solutions, fully managed for you.Partner DirectoryConnect with partner agencies that offer everything from design to development.Explore Our Partner Programs→ResourcesResourcesKnowledge BaseGet access to technical content written by our Liquid Web experts.BlogStay up to date with the latest hosting news.Content HubEbooks, guides, case studies, white papers and more to help you grow.Case StudiesRead great success stories from fellow SMBs.WebinarsGain insights into the latest hosting and optimization strategies.SearchCan’t find what you are looking for? Search our site.Contact UsContact UsPhone800.580.4985
International: 1.517.322.0434Chat24hr Sales & SupportHelpdeskContact SupportContact Us→LoginCall Us1.800.580.49851.517.322.0434SearchPosted on February 11, 2021 by Danielle Vult | Updated: August 13, 2021Category: Tutorials | Tags: Account Management, Common Questions, cPanel, Disable, Email, Email Hosting, Email Setup, Email Sync, Exim, Filter, IMAP, InterWorx, Junk, Linux, Mail, Mail Client, Mail Delivery, Mail Queue Manager, POP3, Qmail, SMTP, Spam, SpamAssassin, Spamming, SSL, Troubleshooting, WHMReading Time: 9 minutesThe most effective method to protect a server from sending spam is to prevent it in the first place. In this article, we provide several techniques to use to keep the server from sending out unwanted spam or junk mail. Typically, unwanted, and unsolicited spam email is usually bulk sent out to an indiscriminate list of recipients. Spam is often used for commercial purposes but can be sent out in massive volume by a botnet or a network of infected computers.Make sure to use the required DNS entries for each domain on the server, which should be mandatory for better email security. SPFDKIMDMARC Always use strong passwords on each cPanel and email account on the server. If you use the Default Required Password Strength setting, we recommend setting its value to 60 or greater.Keep plugins, themes, and software on every website up to date to avoid any compromise or vulnerability.When a website uses a contact form, use a ReCaptcha test. Recaptcha is a Turing test used to tell if the submitter is a human or a bot. This method is strongly recommended as it prevents automated software from submitting info, which could flood the server with unnecessary requests.Even with these measures in place, your server may still send out spam. You can suspect this is happening if your clients cannot send or receive emails, or their emails end up in other people’s spam folders. If this occurs, we recommend taking the following steps in this article to eliminate the problem. First, it is essential to track down the source of spam. In most cases,  it is either an existing email account or a specific PHP mailing script already located on the server. When the spamming email account is located, immediately change the password for that account. If a script is causing the problem, disable the script once you find its exact location on the server. The procedures of detecting the spamming source are detailed below. You will need access to WHM or Interworx to complete the investigation.  Navigate to Mail Queue Manager from WHM (Home » Email » Mail Queue Manager) and enter the search term conditions. It is probably best to choose emails sent out in the last 24 hours or so. In most cases, that will reveal the spammer.Once the search results are provided, check for messages or senders that are continually repeating. At this point, examine that message more closely by clicking on the magnifier icon (View message). Focus on the following parts included in the message headers:FromSubjectToReceived: from username by mydomain.com with local (Exim 4.93)
 (envelope-from <anne@mydomain.com>)
 id 1l0Oht-000623-I8
 for a1tasks@host2.ebizindia.com; Fri, 15 Jan 2021 18:30:01 +0530
From: "anne@mydomain.com>
To: test@liquidweb.com
Subject: Additional and easy income to earn today
X-PHP-Script: mydomain.com/index.php for xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
X-PHP-Originating-Script: 1153:class-phpmailer.php
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8Step 1: Disable the Spamming Email AccountIf the email account name in From and the message’s subject sounds like spam, you will want to change the password for that email account as soon as possible. After you change the password for the email account in question, the continuous outgoing spamming should stop within several minutes of the change, if not immediately.Step 2: Disable the Mailing ScriptIf the information in From is blank or does not provide an email address from the server, take a look at the X-PHP-Originating-Script or X-PHP-Script commands. Please pay close attention to the part in the message header that looks like it reveals the domain name associated with the spamming script and a specific IP address.X-PHP-Script: mydomain.com/index.php for xxx.xxx.xxx.xxxThis part of the header gives the specific name of the malicious script in question.X-PHP-Originating-Script: xxx:class-mailer.phpThe next step is to find the exact location of that script on the server. The best way to do this is to select Terminal from the WHM menu, input the following command (altered to correspond to the information you are dealing with), and press Enter.find /home/username/public_html -type f -name 'class-phpmailer.php'Make sure to:Adjust  /home/username/public_html to fit the domain’s document root on the server.Adjust class-phpmailer.php to match the script name you found out earlier.Once the command’s output is provided, you can go ahead and disable that script by restricting the permissions to 0 by using the below command in the terminal.chmod 000 /path/to/scriptMake sure to adjust /path/to/script to match the exact script location given from the previous command you ran. Please note that this command will disable the script’s functionality. While this may cause problems on the website, the entire focus is on stopping spam. Step 3: Clear the Mail QueueAfter the spam is stopped, you can go ahead and clear the messages from that particular email address from the mail queue by going back to Mail Queue Manager, selecting the checkbox for each email you wish to delete.Step 1: Determine the Number of Frozen EmailsWe first need to find out how many messages are frozen in the email queue. If the server is actively spamming, there can be several thousand messages in the queue. To move forward, SSH into the server or use the Terminal option from WHM. Type in the below command and press Enter. The output should be the number of emails in the queue. Note this number for later reference.exim -bpcStep 2: Determine the SpammerNow, we want to find who the sender of those messages is. Use the command below in that same Terminal and press Enter. exim -bpr | grep "<" | awk {'print $4'} | cut -d "<" -f 2 | cut -d ">" -f 1 | sort -n | uniq -c | sort -rnThe command’s output will look similar to the example below and show how many frozen messages belong to each sender.430 anne@mydomain.com
225
25 mary@mydomain.com
4 mark@domain.com
4 john@domain.com
1 diane@newdomain.org
1 edf.efs23@gmail.comDisregard any lines missing a sender email address as they represent system messages which often sit in the frozen queue. Using the information from the output above, we see that the anne@mydomain.com email account sends multiple messages, which requires further investigation. Step 3: Investigate the SpammerUse the following command to generate a list of the first ten emails in the queue sent from ann@mydomain.com.exim -bp | grep 'anne@mydomain.com' | head 10 You will notice several similar outputs. The string of symbols 1l06xA-00014u-J8 represents the message ID.13h  2.5K 1l06xA-00014u-J8 <> *** frozen ***
          anne@mydomain.comNext, check the header of the message by using the command below.exim -Mvh <message-id>The output will contain a lot of information but focus on the following parts.From
Subject
ToIf the Subject of a message sounds spammy, then this is most likely the spam email message. If you have determined the subject doesn’t sound like a regular message, the email account listed under From is most likely the spammer you are looking for, so you should stop its ongoing activity.To stop the spammer, you will need to change the password for anne@mydomain.com as soon as possible. The continuous outgoing spamming should stop within several minutes after changing the password, if not immediately. If the From, auth_sender, or auth_id are blank, please refer back to the section above "Method 1 Step 2: Disable the Mailing Script" on stopping the spamming script.Now it is time to check and see if the number of frozen messages has changed from the original amount in the mail queue by again running the exim commandexim -bpcBy using this command several times, you can determine if messages have stopped arriving in the queue. After we are sure the spam has stopped, delete the spam messages from the email queue, it is best to clear them over ‘Mail queue Manager’ in WHM. Should you wish to use the commandline to clean out all messages, using one of the following commands will accomplish this task. exim -bp | awk '/^ *[0-9]+[mhd]/{print "exim -Mrm " $3}' | bash

or

exim -bp | exiqgrep -i | xargs exim -MrmStep 1: Determine the Number of Frozen EmailsThe first step in eliminating spam on an InterWorx server is to find out how many frozen messages exist in the queue. To find that out, run the following command as a root user. /var/qmail/bin/qmail-qstatThe qmail-stat command provides a human-readable breakdown of the number of messages at various spots in the mail queue. The qmail-qstat must be run either as root or with group id qmail.You will notice an output similar to what is seen below.messages in queue: 76
messages in queue but not yet preprocessed: 0If this command prints out 0 messages in the queue or, in some cases, doesn’t print anything under it, it means the email queue doesn’t hold any messages. If you get a number as a result, then that is the number of messages waiting to be delivered in the server’s frozen queue. In this case, we would want to check that queue more thoroughly.Step 2: Investigate the MessagesIf the queue is not empty, the next thing you want to do is to find more information about each message using the qmail-read command. This command reviews all messages in the queue and shows us the envelope sender, the creation time, the queue ID, and the current delivery status to each recipient. Now, run this command./var/qmail/bin/qmail-qreadThis will provide output with lines that look similar to this.30 Jan 2021 03:34:30 GMT  #3676617  525  <anne@mydomain.com>We need to note the sender’s email address at the end of the line for further troubleshooting. The email within the ‘<>’ symbols and the message ID starts with the pound ‘#’ symbol are the main attributes to pay attention to.The queue lists all available messages. The sender’s email account containing the most messages is the first account we will review. The commands below will show us how to review the header information of each message in detail.  Run this command to locate the message on the server. Replace the pound symbol with the message ID and press Enter.find /var/qmail/queue/mess/ -iname #Example: find /var/qmail/queue/mess/ -iname 3676617This command provides the location on the server,  similar to what is seen below./var/qmail/queue/mess/22/3676617The final step is to examine the file using the cat command.cat /var/qmail/queue/mess/22/3676617Example output:Received: (qmail 24703 invoked by uid 1153); 30 Jan 2021 10:06:42 -0500
To: test@liquidweb.com
Subject: Thank You for Signing Up
X-PHP-Originating-Script: 1153:class-phpmailer.php
X-PHP-Script: mydomain.com/index.php for xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
Date: Sat, 30 Jan 2021 15:06:42 +0000
From: mary <mary@mydomain.com>
Reply-To: mary@mydomain.com
Message-ID: <33f50b7b0591eaa61a81aacafbfc9155@mydomain.com>
X-Mailer: PHPMailer 5.2.22 
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=UTF-8
Check the Subject and From output. If you notice a subject that resembles a typical spam message, review the From email account. If we see a significant number of similar emails, we should change the email account password., This will stop any active spam from leaving the server. Using the terminal to detect a spammer can be complicated, so here are the instructions on using the Interworx Mail Queue Manager. Once you are logged in to your server’s Nodeworx dashboard, follow the steps below: Click on System Services, then Mail Server, then Mail Queue.Locate the Queue section.Select remote, local, todo, or remote+local from the drop-down list.If there are no messages in a given queue, you will see No Messages In Queue.If there are messages in a given queue, they will be displayed in the Queue section table.Next, we need to review the messages’ contents. This is how we determine if a message is spam, based on the sender/recipient. In the Message ID column, click on the number of the message you wish to view. The message will be displayed in a new window. If you notice multiple messages from the same user, you will want to examine those messages more closely. Click on ‘View message’ and focus on the subject of each message, as well as the sender. If the ‘Subject’ sounds like spam, then this message’s sender is most likely the spamming account. To stop the spam, change the email account password as soon as possible. The final step is removing the queue’s unwanted messages by checking them and ‘Delete’ what you have selected. Whichever method you choose to follow, the server should finally be free from ongoing spam if everything went well. We also recommend monitoring the server briefly afterward to verify you have successfully eliminated the spam issue.Without the proper tools, controlling spam can be difficult and time-consuming. We hope this information will provide the administrator a better methodology to begin addressing the issue of outgoing spam email.We pride ourselves on being The Most Helpful Humans In Hosting™! Our Support Teams are filled with experienced Linux technicians and talented system administrators who have intimate knowledge of multiple web hosting technologies, especially those discussed in this article. Should you have any questions regarding this information, we will always answer any inquiries with issues related to this article, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. How to Create a MySQL Database in cPanelHow to Set Up Hotlink Protection in cPanelHow to Use the IP Blocker in cPanelHow to Manage a MySQL Database With phpMyAdmin in cPanelHow to Password Protect a Directory in cPanelHow to Use the Disk Space Usage Tool in cPanelJoin our mailing list to receive news, tips, strategies, and inspiration you need to grow your businessCategoriesHave Some Questions?Our Sales and Support teams are available 24 hours by phone or e-mail to assist.1.800.580.49851.517.322.0434TutorialsHow to Set Up Hotlink Protection in cPanelRead ArticleWHM + cPanelHow to Set Up Hotlink Protection in cPanelRead ArticleOtherWhat is the Difference Between NGINX and Apache?Read ArticleCommon FixesAccessing Man Pages on Ubuntu 16.04 LTSRead ArticleProductsWhat is VMware Fusion?Read ArticleWant More Great Content Sent to Your Inbox?


Filed under:



How-to




Reviews




Tech










    New,
  


        27
      
comments




Opt out of spam calls and ad targeting while you’re at it


    
      By
      
Helen Havlak



  Feb 29, 2020, 10:00am EST








If you buy something from a Verge link, Vox Media may earn a commission. See our ethics statement.








Share this on Facebook





Share this on Twitter








Share
All sharing options














Linkedin










Reddit







Pocket









Flipboard





Email














Part of
      
      The Verge guide to privacy and security
    



For years, I have been getting inundated with physical junk mail from my internet service provider (ISP), Charter Spectrum (formerly Time Warner Cable). In huge red capital letters, the envelopes are stamped “OPEN UPON RECEIPT” or “NOTICE” or “IMPORTANT ACCOUNT INFORMATION.” 
I always open them, just in case there is a legitimate problem and my internet is about to be shut off. Every single time, I get duped. Instead of legitimate account notices, the mailers are ads trying to get me to upgrade my plan or buy more services from Spectrum. In addition to tree-killing paper mailers I can at least recycle, Spectrum often likes to mix in unrecyclable thick plastic cards.
It’s not like I can switch internet service providers to get away from the obnoxious mailers. My building isn’t wired for any other ISP, so I don’t have a choice if I want internet. According to an April 2018 report by the New York City Mayor’s Office, 69 percent of NYC households have only one or two options for broadband providers; as of 2016, at least 24 million Americans had no broadband provider at all. So like many of Spectrum’s 26 million US broadband internet subscribers, I thought I had to accept misleading junk mail as a cost of getting my internet. 


I don’t know why @Ask_Spectrum offers paperless billing if they’re gonna send this much junk mail every 2 weeks anyways. pic.twitter.com/mWOnpRQKCA— Uri Halevi (@uhalevi) November 18, 2019



But thanks to a tip from Verge reader KO, I found out you can opt out of Spectrum junk mail online and tell Spectrum not to call, email, or come knocking with sales offers. As a bonus, the privacy page where you opt out of spam also lets you easily opt out of letting Spectrum use your personal data to target ads to you. Spectrum does deserve some credit for this; Verizon Fios makes you call a 1-800 number, reread your contract for instructions, and then navigate two separate sections of your account preferences to achieve the same results.


Opt out online here

Opt out by phone by calling 1-855-75-SPECTRUM

For the rest of the instructions, we will assume you’re filling out the online form; however, it’s probable you’ll go through a similar process if you call. 



Your first and last name
Your street address
Your phone number, if requesting Do Not Call
Your email address, if requesting Do Not Email



You can opt out of receiving marketing and sales offers from Spectrum by phone, email, physical mail, and door-to-door sales. You will still receive actual account notifications about your service via these channels, even if you opt out of marketing.

First, identify yourself as a current customer and fill out all of the address fields
Now, check the four boxes for Do Not Call, Do Not Email, Do Not Mail, and Do Not Knock. For Do Not Call, you’ll need to provide a phone number or numbers. You can also add up to two additional addresses to your Do Not Mail and Do Not Knock requests. 

None of these are immediate fixes. Spectrum says Do Not Email can take up to 10 days, Do Not Call can take up to 30 days, and Do Not Mail and Do Not Knock can take up to 60 days. I submitted my opt-out notice on February 26th, and I will update this post if I continue to receive mail after the 60-day mark.
Before you complete the CAPTCHA and submit, pause to expand the section called “Additional Privacy Preferences.” It should be at the bottom, right after the Do Not Knock section. If you don’t see it, go back to the top of the form and make sure you answered “Yes” to the question “Are you a current customer?”


In “Additional Privacy Preferences,” you can opt out of letting Spectrum use your personal information to customize ads for you. While Spectrum heavily disclaims that “Your personally identifiable information is not disclosed to the third-party advertisers... and we do not share your personally identifiable information with third parties for their own marketing or advertising purposes,” there have been reports of individual people being identified from “anonymous” data like browsing habits. So opting out here is a good idea if you care about your privacy.
(Side note: data sharing by your ISP to target ads would have been restricted or prohibited altogether by Federal Communications Commission internet privacy rules that Congress shut down in 2018. Alas.) 

Check the box labeled “Do Not Use CPNI” to opt out of marketing based on your “customer proprietary network information” or “CPNI,” which sends you promotions based on the “quantity, technical configuration, type, destination, location, and amount of your use of the Spectrum telecommunications services, and information about your Spectrum phone service that is contained on your bill.”
Opt out of interest-based ads online where Spectrum targets you with custom ads on its sites as well as third-party sites and apps using personal information “such as your zip code, information about your current subscription, use of our products or services, or other demographic and generally available information.” This only impacts how the ads Spectrum serves are targeted, not online ads in general. If you move or get a new account, you’ll need to resubmit this request.
Opt out of interest-based ads on television and then on TV applications where some of the ads you see are targeted based on your location or other things Spectrum knows about you, such as “your use of our products or services or information that we receive from others.”

Note: all of these are opting out of how Spectrum acts on your personal data; you’re not opting out of Spectrum’s data collection altogether.

If you identified yourself as a current customer and claimed your state as California at the top of the form, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) means you’ll get an extra option called “Opt-Out of Sale of Personal Information (California Consumers Only),” and you can check that box as well.
The CCPA also means you can request that Spectrum send you all of your data or delete it from its systems. That involves filling out a separate form, which you can find here.


Now, all you have to do is complete the CAPTCHA, submit, and wait up to 60 days for all of your preferences to take effect.

Let us know in the comments!











              Mobile privacy and security
              
                

                    3
                  






How to secure your phone before attending a protest
How to stop annoying robocalls on your iPhone or Android phone
How to set up emergency location sharing on Android and iOS






              Home privacy and security
              
                

                    2
                  






How to stop Google from keeping your voice recordings
Deleting your Siri voice recordings from Apple’s servers is confusing — here’s how






              Online privacy and security
              
                

                    6
                  






How to auto-delete your YouTube history
How to keep spam from invading your Google Calendar
How to protect your privacy on Facebook
How to protect your privacy on YouTube
How to generate virtual online IDs to prevent spam, scams, and phishing attacks
How to fight lies, tricks, and chaos online
















Subscribe to get the best Verge-approved tech deals of the week.






Just one more thing!
Please confirm your subscription to Verge Deals via the verification email we just sent you.




Email (required)






      By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice. You can opt out at any time. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
      
    




















Loading comments...


This article was updated on January 27, 2021.
Email deliverability is not an exact science, which can be frustrating for senders of all types. You can accidentally end up in the email spam folder for any number of reasons, from your email list health to your authentication status, but there are a few tried-and-true tricks that can help you land back in the inbox in no time. 

Even the most seasoned email marketers experience email delivery issues—it happens all the time. That’s where we come in! We’re here to help you get back into the inbox and avoid the spam folder altogether. 
In this post, we’ll cover some of our best advice to ensure your messages avoid spam filters and get delivered to your recipients. Look for tips regarding the following:



Build your own email list
Provide a double opt-in
Authenticate your email with SPF, DKIM, DMARC, and BIMI
Clean up your email list regularly
Avoid deny lists and monitor your reputation
Be compliant
Provide a preference center
Monitor your email engagement metrics
Send relevant content
Utilize spam checkers




Email content is vital for communicating important information to stakeholders, providing shipping confirmations or security alerts, etc., but it can’t help your recipients if the emails never make it to their inboxes or go to an unengaged audience. Always avoid:



Renting, purchasing, or co-registering an email from a third party
Sharing or using a shared list with a partner
Scraping emails or using a robot to collect emails—known as email harvesting—puts you squarely into the spam folder, so don’t ever do it



You want to have an email list consisting of folks interested in receiving your emails, that way you ensure engagement. Organically building your email list is in your best interest long term. It may not be the easiest or fastest way to grow your list and audience, but it is by far the most effective. For more on how to grow your email list organically and spammy email, check out our article, Grow Your Email List Like You Make New Friends.

Verifying recipient registration and opt-in is crucial to building a healthy, sustainable email list. Using a double opt-in ensures that subscribers are consenting to receive your emails by sending them a confirmation or welcome email that requires action, usually in the form of a check box or link agreeing to terms. Once they’ve completed this action, they are on your mailing list.
Here’s an example of a double opt-in in action from the SendGrid Blog:

Utilizing double opt-in confirms a recipient’s genuine interest in your emails, keeping your engagement and delivery rates high while lowering your risk for spam traps. For more on best practices with sender-recipient relationships, check out our guide, Email Manners: A Tale of Two Senders.

Email authentication can be tricky but is key to verifying that you are who you say you are and that you’re sending legitimate emails. Inbox providers trust authenticated mail more than unauthenticated mail, and are more likely to deliver those messages straight into the inbox.
The following four methods authenticate your email and help prove to providers that your email is worthy of the inbox and not the spam folder:



Sender Policy Framework (SPF) confirms your identity by comparing the sender’s IP (found in the domain’s DNS record) with a list of IPs authorized to send from that domain. For an in-depth explanation of SPF, check out Sender Policy Framework: A Layer of Protection in Email Infrastructure.
Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM) ensures that email is not tampered with during the transmission/sending process. For a crash course on all things DKIM, read How to Use DKIM to Prevent Domain Spoofing.
Domain-Based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance (DMARC) leverages the power of DKIM and SPF by requiring both in order to send and deliver mail. What is DMARC? outlines everything you need to know.
Brand Indicators for Message Identification (BIMI) attaches your business’ logo to your emails, making them more recognizable to recipients. For everything BIMI, check out What is BIMI? (Brand Indicators for Message Identification).



These authentication methods are the responsibility of the individual sender, but SendGrid can help you get started with each. Learn more about how our Expert Services can help you to mitigate deliverability issues and set your email program up for success.

Email lists and subscribers naturally ebb and flow as recipients drop off of your list. Some folks just don’t want to receive your emails, and that’s okay! The quality of your list is much more important and valuable than the number of contacts on your list. 
While some individuals may unsubscribe, others will ignore your emails or mark them as spam. This is detrimental to your sending reputation, making your emails less likely to reach recipients’ inboxes, including those that actively engage with your messages. A leaner, more engaged email list is always more effective than a large list of unengaged users.
Regular list maintenance helps stave off low engagement and its impact on your sender reputation. Removing unengaged users, bounced emails, and other spam traps are some of the most effective ways to clean your list.
Remember that email list turnover is normal—don’t take it personally! Be proactive, clean up your list, and you’ll start to experience improved delivery rates to the inbox. 

Your email domain has an associated sending reputation, and if it begins to slip, you may find yourself on an email deny list. Even the most cautious and well-intentioned senders can end up on an email deny list occasionally. Reduce the risk of ending up on a deny list by implementing the following sending practices:



Use confirmed opt-in or double opt-in to ensure engaged recipients.
Implement a sunset policy to remove confirmed unengaged subscribers.
Use real-time address validation to reduce the risk of false emails or typos ending up in your email list. Twilio SendGrid’s Email Validation API works in real time to support senders and detect errors in email addresses with machine learning. 



Keeping watch over your delivery rates will notify you of any signals that you may be on a deny list.

While compliance does not guarantee email delivery, it can help you bypass some ISP roadblocks. Over the past 20 years, internet privacy laws have boomed around the world. The most important pieces of legislation for marketers and senders are Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing (CAN-SPAM), the Canada Anti-Spam Law (CASL), the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), and the California Consumer Protection Act (CCPA). These laws govern all commercial email, so let’s review what each asks of senders.

The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM Act protects the privacy of recipients by requiring senders to abide by a set of sending requirements and standards aiming to weed out bad actors. 
Under CAN-SPAM, commercial communications must avoid deception by clearly stating the purpose of emails, respecting recipients’ preferences, and being transparent throughout the sending process. For more information on CAN-SPAM, check out 5 CAN-SPAM Myths & Best Practices: From a Lawyer’s POV.

The Canada Anti-Spam Law (CASL) serves a similar function to CAN-SPAM, aiming to create a more transparent relationship between senders and recipients. CASL applies specifically to commercial electronic messages (CEMs), defined as “any electronic message that encourages participation in a commercial activity, regardless of whether there is an expectation of profit.”
For an in-depth look at how CASL affects your sending practices, check out Canadian Anti-Spam Law: What You Need to Know.

Perhaps one of the most talked about pieces of privacy legislation in recent years, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been top of mind for many since its inception in 2016. Its regulations cover the entirety of the EU, meaning that anyone sending email to the region must be compliant. 
The GDPR aims to grant those in the EU more control over their personal data by requiring companies to be transparent with how they use it. Businesses working within the EU must be compliant with the regulation’s strict data processing requirements, covering where and how personal data is stored and used, as well as ensuring the security of that data.
For more information on the GDPR, read General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR): What Senders Need To Know.

The California Consumer Protection Act (CCPA) feels like the natural descendent of the above privacy legislation, granting consumers more control over the use of their data. However, it only applies to businesses falling within specific categories. For businesses to be subject to the CCPA’s requirements, only one of the following must apply:



The business’ annual revenue exceeds $25 million
The business “buys, receives, or sells the personal information of 50,000 or more consumers, households, or devices”
The business can claim that 50% or more of its annual revenue comes from the sale of consumers’ personal information



Check out What is the California Consumer Privacy Act? for more information on how the CCPA affects sending practices.
Remember, compliance with these pieces of legislation is obligatory and that meeting the requirements of one does not guarantee compliance with another. Err on the side of caution—you don’t want to be an email spammer!

Preference centers provide new and existing subscribers with the freedom to adjust how often they receive your emails. By providing a preference center that puts recipients in control of how and when you contact them, you reduce the risk of having subscribers mark your emails as spam. 

 
Reduce friction by making the preference center prominent and easy to access. Removing obstacles like this can actually help to increase your engagement rates and keep your messages in the inboxes of engaged recipients. Learn how to perfect your preference center.

Metrics and email performance are the tried-and-true way to know how your email program progresses and improves. Before you can utilize these key performance indicators, it’s important to understand your baseline metrics—we all have to start somewhere, right?
Start with the following basic metrics:



Spam complaints
Open rates
Click through rates
Delivery rates



When you start tracking these metrics, don’t panic if you notice negative trends. The most important thing you can do is act quickly and calmly to remedy the problem. For example, in the case of dropping open rates, review your subject lines and email frequency. These two variables often have the most impact on this metric. 
When testing emails, use real content and recipients. Some practices, like seed testing, allow senders to test emails sent to small batches of recipients to understand how an internet service provider (ISP) will respond but don’t provide a perfect analysis. Every ISP weighs seed testing differently, so try not to put all of your eggs in one basket here. In most cases, seed testing provides a false sense of security to senders—send tests to real recipients to get a more accurate idea of how they’ll respond.

The core of any successful email program is a commitment to sending relevant, interesting content to your recipients. This means being intentional about your sending practices and not sending for the sake of sending. Aimless sending can cause your engagement to suffer, and that’s the last thing we want. The emails you send should resonate with your recipients. Otherwise, you risk getting ignored—or worse, sent to spam. 
The next time you draft an email, consider the following before hitting send:

Am I sharing new, urgent, or relevant information with my recipients?
Have I shared an update about this topic recently? Is it too soon to send another update?
Do all of my subscribers need to know this information? Should I update a specific segment of my list instead?
Would I find this email valuable as a recipient?

Finding what email content works best for your brand often involves trial and error, so feel free to try new things and experiment with new styles of copy as you get to know your recipients.

Spam checkers are online tools that allow you to test your emails and indicate how likely recipients will mark them as spam. Although ISPs have the final say in how messages are filtered, spam checkers can often provide senders with peace of mind as they prepare new campaigns.
Twilio SendGrid’s Email Testing provides a spam checking tool that shows how your emails may perform against some of the most powerful spam filters in the industry, as well as inbox rendering previews and URL checkers. Understanding how your emails may perform against these filters can help you to troubleshoot in advance and improve your likelihood of landing in the inbox the first time you send.

Email marketing provides a unique challenge in that every audience is different and prefers different types of content. The more you understand your audience and their email preferences, the better. 
The strategies above can help you meet your audience where they are and give you a place to start. The rest is up to you. The higher your email engagement, the more likely you are to avoid email spam filters and land in the inbox—but it’s up to you to stay there.
Email is constantly evolving, which means best practices are too. Stay up to date by checking out our Top 10 Tips & Tricks to Stay Out of the Spam Folder Guide. For in-depth tips on landing in the inbox, check out the 2022 Email Deliverability Guide. Our Expert Services are also here to help you through specific obstacles within your email program.


My accountDragon Platform [US]Dragon Platform [EU]  blog   demo   support   careers   sales: +1(888)551-1531                     Products & Services       Technology   Dragon Platform Learn about Zero Trust Architecture   Endpoint Security   Advanced Endpoint Protection Impenetrable cybersecurity without sacrificing usability   Endpoint Detection and Response Gain detailed visibility into all your endpoints activities   SecureBox Application Containerization Harden applications and hardware environments     Security services   Managed Detection and Response Immediate and continuous response to incidents   Global Threat Intelligence Close the window of time your data could be exposed  Customer Success Operations Get your Comodo solutions setup, deployed or optimized  Advanced Penetration Testing     Network Security   Secure Internet Gateway Control access to malicious websites   Secure Web Gateway Defend from any internet based threats   Secure Email Gateway Stop email threats before it enters your inbox   Data Loss Prevention Preserve and protect your sensitive data  Website Security  Website Security Internet Products Website Malware Scanner Keep your website running fast and malware free     DIGITAL CERTIFICATION   TLS / SSL Certificates Add encryption to your websites   Certificate Manager Automated certificate mgmt. platform   Private CA Secure private intranet environments   Code Signing Digital signature solutions for cloud apps   S/MIME Certificates Encrypt emails for senders and recipients   Website Scanning Stay compliant with PCI DSS   Internet of Things Trusted authentication for IoT devices         SSL Certificates        TLS / SSL Certificates Add encryption to your websites   Certificate Manager Automated certificate mgmt. platform   Private CA Secure private intranet environments   Code Signing Digital signature solutions for cloud apps   S/MIME Certificates Encrypt emails for senders and recipients   Website Scanning Stay compliant with PCI DSS   Internet of Things Trusted authentication for IoT devices    COMODO CERTIFICATE AUTHORITY BRAND ACQUIRED BY FRANCISCO PARTNERS Francisco Partners a leading technology-focused private equity fund, has acquired a majority stake in Comodo’s certificate authority business. Newly renamed from Comodo CA Limited to Sectigo Limited. Privacy Policies, Trademarks, Patents and Terms & Conditions are available on Sectigo Limited’s web site. continue to sectigo.com          Partners    Company       About us   Our Leadership Meet the people behind the direction for Comodo     Get to know us   Newsroom Get the latest news about Comodo   Join the Cybersecurity Team People are the key to achievement and prosperity   Webinars Stay up to date with our on-demand webinars  Tradeshows & Events     Discuss cybersecurity   Contact us Worldwide: Sales, Support and General Inquiries   Request Demo Schedule a live demonstration of our solutions  Emergency Incident Response Need immediate help? Call 1-888-551-1531         For Home       Security   Antivirus Software Instantly removes viruses to keep your PC virus free   Mobile Security Experience true mobile security on your mobile apple devices   Internet Security     Web browsers   Internet BrowserSecure Internet Browser based on Chrome  Browser add-ons & extensions   Security Plugins Chrome browser internet security extension         Resources       Resources     Customer Success Stories     Webinars On-Demand     Documentation Guides     Blog         KNOWLEDGE BASE     Support Center Submit a ticket to our support team  Report VulnerabilitiesShare any product bugs or security flaws     Comodo-Academia Collaborate with research experts on data sets   Valkyrie Plugins Valkyrie Threat Intelligence Plugins   Valkyrie APIs Valkyrie Threat Intelligence APIs         My Account Dragon Platform (US)Dragon Platform (EU)   Cyber Security BlogRequest a DemoContact SupportContact Sales: 1-888-551-1531   START FREE TRIAL          Comodo Cybersecurity Blog       Endpoint SecurityMobile SecurityComodo NewsIT SecurityEmail SecurityPC SecurityCase StudiesMoreAntispamContainmentIT ManagementE-CommerceMalware      linkedin linkedin linkedin linkedin             admin     08.01.2018 4 years ago    antispam     Loading...        Reading Time:  2 minutesNearly half of all the emails sent in the entire world is spam. That’s a LOT of spam to clear. And spam isn’t new; it’s been around since the time of the invention of the email (in the 1980’s). While spam may seem easily avoidable for some people, it remains the no. 1 cause of viruses and other types of malware to enter into the computers or even entire networks.This article will explain what to look out for, provide some tips on ways to stop spam emails –even those that look very real -and how you can reduce your exposure to spam.#1 Train your spam filter When you get a spam email from an unknown sender, don’t just delete it. Select it, and mark it as a spam message. Sometimes, your email client may mark an important email from a known sender as spam. In such scenarios, you need to mark that email as safe to train the email client about your false positives.#2 Never respond to spam In case you received a spam email and recognized it before you open it, don’t open it. If you realize an email as spam only after opening it, mark it as spam and close it. Do not click the links or buttons, or download files from the spam messages.#3 Use alternative email addressesA lot of unwanted emails can make their way into your inbox if you order a product or subscribe to a mailing list. By ordering a product or subscribing to a mailing list of a company, you are automatically signed up to receive unwanted marketing updates from that company, or it may share your contact information with a third-party advertiser.One simple solution to stop such spam emails is to create a secondary email address that you can use for such activities. By doing so, those unwanted marketing emails will not appear in your primary email inbox.#4 Hide your email addressThe more people who expose your email address, the more spam emails you are going to get. So keep your email address hidden from public view. Avoid publishing your primary email address on the web unless it is required. Use alternative email addresses for such scenarios.#5 Use a third-party Anti-spam filterMost of the Anti-spam solutions that are available today can be customized as per your needs, allowing only the approved emails into your inbox. There are free anti-spam software as well as paid anti-spam software.Comodo Dome Antispam is one such solution which can quickly identify and filter spam emails from your inbox. It uses advanced spam filters, and content analysis engines to detect and prevent unsolicited emails from entering your network.If you are in search of a good anti-spam solution that stops spam emails, look no further get Comodo Dome Anti-spam today!Related ResourcesWebsite Safety CheckWebsite CheckerVulnerability ScannerWeb PerformanceSecurity WebsitesCheck Website Safetywhat does a Firewall doAntivirus for Linuxwhat is SplunkWhat is Spam on the Internet Website Malware ScannerWebsite BackupWordPress Malware Removal Pirate Torrent Web Security LoginCheck Website for MalwareManaged Detection and ResponseWeb Monitoring SoftwareScan LinkWebsite ScannerScam Website Checker START FREE TRIAL GET YOUR INSTANT SECURITY SCORECARD FOR FREE   Tags: antispam,antispam filter for business,antispam software,antispam solutions,how to stop spam emails,spam emails,stop spam emails   Share:  linkedin linkedin linkedin linkedinlinkedin            02.26.2019      Reading Time:  2 minutes Email Protection or Email Security refers to the methodologies implied to safeguard the content and access to email service or individual accounts. In other words, Email Protection enables a business or organization to control and manage the overall access to one or more email addresses/accounts. Every email service provider has an email protection mechanism in…  Continue Reading      01.22.2019      Reading Time:  2 minutes Email inboxes are constantly bombarded with spam mails. It does not just occupy the email bandwidth, however, it also brings about a lot of malicious threats to the users. A good spam filter would help you to stay secure, protected and helps you terminate unwanted suspicious spam emails from entering your network in the first…  Continue Reading      01.11.2019      Reading Time:  2 minutes Phishing or Phishing attack is a type of social engineering attack carried out by the online criminals who send out fraudulent communications to users to steal their personal details, such as login credentials, bank account details, and debit or credit card numbers. The Phishing attacker masquerades as a trusted entity tricks their victims into opening…  Continue Reading         Sign up to our cyber security newsletter   Sign Up With Twitter   Sign Up With Facebook      form    first_name-error    email-error  recaptcha             Comodo Cybersecurity would like to keep in touch with you about cybersecurity issues, as well as products and services available. Please sign up to receive occasional communications. As a cybersecurity company, we take your privacy and security very seriously and have strong safeguards in place to protect your information. agreecheck        See how your organization scores against cybersecurity threats   SEE YOUR SECURITY SCORES            200 Broadacres Drive, 2nd Floor Bloomfield, NJ 07003 United States   Tel: +1 (888) 551-1531 Tel: +1 (973) 859-4000 Fax: +1 (973) 777-4394   Inquiries: sales@comodo.com   Support: c1-support@comodo.com   Report Bugs: security@comodo.com     linkedin facebook twitter youtube       Support Newsroom Blog Events Webinars Legal Affairs Contact Careers Partner Demo      One Platform Advanced Endpoint Protection Endpoint Detection & Response Global Threat Intelligence Managed Detection and Response Secure Internet Gateway Secure Web Gateway Secure Email Gateway Data Loss Prevention Campus Safety Ransomware Removal Ransomware Protection Recent Ransomware Attacks Service Desk RMM ITSM ITIL Helpdesk Remote Desktop Connection Manager Best Remote Desktop Software Ticketing System SOC as a Service      Comodo Antivirus Windows Antivirus Best Virus Removal Tools Best Mac Antivirus Antivirus for Windows 7 Antivirus for Windows 8 Antivirus for Windows 10 Antivirus for Mac Antivirus for Linux Free Firewall Free Antivirus Mobile Security for Android Ice Dragon Browser Antivirus for Android Virus Removal Malware Removal Url Scanner Website Security Website Malware Scanner Best Website Security EDR Security      TLS / SSL Certificates TLS / SSL Certificate Management Private CA Code Signing S/MIME Certificates Website Scanning Internet of Things    CDN Bootstrap CDN Semantic UI CDN Jquery CDN Best CDN Cheap CDN Wordpress CDN Free Web Hosting       TERMS & CONDITIONS PRIVACY POLICY LEGAL REPOSITORY  © 2022 Comodo Security Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved. All trademarks displayed on this web site are the exclusive property of the respective holders.                 DRAGON ENTERPRISE Endpoint Protection Platform    Advanced Endpoint Protection, Endpoint Detection and Response  Built On Zero Trust Architecture available on our SaaS EPP   GET STARTED NOW


Buyers' Guides


For Sellers


Insights




Categories












Email Security














Endpoint Protection














Email Encryption














Email Archiving














Security Awareness Training














Multi-Factor Authentication














Single Sign-On














Web Security














Cloud Backup and Recovery














Zero Trust Security









All Categories

























Home






Insights






                                            How To Stop Phishing Attacks                                        






Features


  9 min read








By Joel Witts
Updated April 6th, 2022













 










How can I stop phishing attacks? This is the question every IT admin in organizations all over the world are frequently having to ask themselves. Phishing is one of the most common, most effective, and most damaging types of attacks that hackers can utilize to break into accounts, steal data and scam your company. 
Phishing attacks have been on the rise in the last few years. But with Covid-19 causing many organizations to move to remote working, phishing attacks have increased massively.
Research from email security firm Barracuda has found that email phishing attacks have risen by a staggering 667%. We’ve seen attackers impersonating the US Government, the World Health Organization and even hand sanitizer manufacturers to attempt to trick users. 
But stopping phishing attacks can be made easy for your
organization – and it doesn’t have to be expensive. There are a range of tools
you can utilize to protect your users and data from phishing, which will
improve your security, save IT admins time, and save your business money in the
long run. 
Here’s the top ways for organizations to protect their data and users against phishing attacks. 

Before we jump into how you can fix the problem, let’s take a step back and cover what phishing is and why it’s so difficult to combat. Phishing is a broad term, and actually encompasses a range of different strategies that hackers use to try and trick your employees. 
Phishing Emails
The most well-known kind of phishing attack is the phishing email. Pretty much everyone will have received one of these at some point. They look like this: 

They’re likely to have a ‘call-to-action.’ This could be asking you to click a link or open a file, which will install a virus or some ransomware. Or, it could be asking you to fill out an invoice, make a fraudulent payment, or login to an account. Most of the time a savvy user will disregard these emails, as they don’t come from contacts your users trust. But, they can be convincing and cause real harm. 
Phishing attacks will often use domains like ‘apple.iphone.com,’ which looks like it could be legitimate, but is actually a spoof domain. Unfortunately, this will be enough to fool some users into putting in their password or making a payment to an attacker.
Phishing attacks can go beyond just email. It’s getting more and more common for users to be targeted by SMShing and Vishing; phishing attacks using phone calls and text messages.  These types of attacks are often very successful because we don’t approach a text message with the same caution that we would an email. 98% of people will open every text they receive, whereas only around 25% of emails sent are ever actually opened (superoffice.com). 
Spear-Phishing and Business Email Compromise
An advanced kind of phishing attack is spear-phishing. Spear-phishing is defined as hackers actually impersonating a trusted sender, like a business contact. They will then go to users, impersonating someone they know, and ask them for account information, or ask them to make a payment.
 This can be hugely effective, as you often won’t suspect a trusted contact or a company you’ve worked with before to be an attacker in disguise. For this reason, these types of attack are often successful for attackers.
An even more sophisticated kind of phishing attack is Business Email Compromise. This involves attackers using spear-phishing to gain access to high level executive and CEO accounts, which they can then use to request multiple fraudlent invoices from other employees. 
Phishing Websites
There is also the issue of phishing websites to consider. When surfing the web, users may come across pages that look legitimate, but are really phishing pages, that are designed to look genuine, but will actually be scraping your user data. Around 1.5 million new phishing sites are created every single month, according to Webroot. 
Often users will come onto these pages from the links within phishing emails, but they can be found by usual web browsing if an attacker has been skilled enough to create a phishing page and hidden it within a genuine site. 

This exact situation occurred recently, when a hacking group
inserted just 22 lines of code onto the website of British Airways, directing a
subset of their users to a phishing website which asked them to login and input
credit card details. 
The group were able to obtain information on half a million of the airline’s customers, and BA were recently fined more than £183 million for failing to properly protect this data under GDPR. 

From the example of BA alone you can start to see how
damaging phishing attacks can really be. Phishing accounts for 90% of all data breaches according to
IBM, and the average cost of a breach is $3.86 million dollars.  76% of businesses reported to be a victim of
phishing last year, and that figure is likely to rise this year. 
The main reason for phishing attacks being so successful is
that they slip through the gaps in email and web security technologies.
Businesses commonly use email clients like Exchange, Office 365 or G-Suite for
their email communications. These platforms will filter out some malicious
email, like email that contains overtly malicious links or appear to be spam. 
However, many phishing attacks don’t contain anything overtly malicious. Instead they use social engineering, deceiving users into divulging confidential or personal information. Even emails that do contain links to URLs can slip through the gaps, as URLs can be scanned by email filters and categorized as safe, and then later be injected with malware. 
This same principle applies to phishing websites. You may
have a desktop anti-virus or filter in place that will stop malicious downloads
or users from prevent malicious webpages from loading, but sophisticated
phishing websites will trick users into logging into accounts, or inputting
credit card details, which the hacker can then use or sell elsewhere. 

Because they are so hard for users and for security
technologies to detect, phishing attacks. are often very successful. So how can
you stop them?
Email Filtering
Your first line of defence against phishing is a Secure Email Gateway. 
Email gateways are used to filter out harmful and malicious
emails, and quarantine them automatically away from user inboxes. A good email
gateway will block 99.99% of spam emails, and will remove any email that
contains any malicious links or attachments. This means they are crucial in
stopping users from receiving fraudulent phishing emails.
Email gateways such as Proofpoint also expose when accounts have been compromised, and so can prevent business email compromise attempts within your organization, and stop your accounts being used to send out spam or phishing emails to companies that you work with. 
Having an email gateway in place is important for
organizations of any size. There are a number of different vendors providing
cost-effective, easy-to-use and highly secure email gateways that will help you
to stop phishing attacks. 
Read next: Our Guide To The Top 11 Secure Email Gateways

Phishing Protection Inside the Email Inbox
One of the challenges surrounding phishing is that once a phishing email is within an inbox, or an account has been compromised and is sending out internal phishing emails, it can be very difficult for admins to reach into user inboxes and remove the threat. Cloud-based email security solutions that integrate with email networks via API provide a comprehensive solution to this problem, with advanced phishing protection capabilities. 
Cloud email security solutions protect users from threats within the email inbox. Typically, they use algorithms powered by machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) which are fed typical attributes of phishing emails. They then apply these attributes to the emails your users send and receive, along with analysis from anti-virus engines, to detect suspicious emails. The best cloud email security services will then display warning banners on these emails, alerting users they may be harmful, or according to admin policies, they will remove the emails from your network entirely. 
Having cloud email security in place is especially important for organizations who deal with high value or sensitive data and need strong protection in place from all forms of phishing attacks.  
These platforms work alongside the secure email gateway. Using them together, you have a multilayered security approach that allow you to stop most phishing attacks before they can enter your email network, and have the tools to remove any sophisticated attacks that can bypass the spam filter. 
Read Next: Our Guide To The Top Cloud Email Security Solutions

Website Filtering
Web filtering is one of the most important ways to prevent
your users from accessing phishing websites. There are a few different ways
that web filtering works, such as a web proxy or filtering using DNS. Without
going too deep into the technical specifics, these filters sort web pages into
different categories and use anti-virus systems to scan pages for threats. 
Organizations can then block certain categories and enable polices that will block users from accessing any phishing pages. This is crucial to stopping users going onto fake phishing websites that look legitimate and downloading malware, or inputting their account or financial details. 
Sophisticated web filtering solutions will also use machine learning algorithms to scan webpages for signs that they are phishing, even if they do not contain anything outright malicious. 
Read Next: Our Guide To The Top Web Security Solutions

Web and Email Isolation
Isolation is a different approach to security from the
phishing solutions we’ve looked at before. The very idea behind isolation is
total protection from the threats themselves, by isolating online content away
from the user desktop and into secure containers, without impacting the user
experience. 
Read next: How Does Browser Isolation Work?
The benefit of this is that any web based content is
stripped of threats and delivered to users removing the risk of infection or compromise.
If a user visits a phishing webpage, or opens a malicious attachment in an
email, isolation will stop any threats they may encounter. 
Isolation works by mirroring the webpage content with any malicious code removed. This also means that many Isolation vendors can protect users from credential theft. Jonathon Lee, from Menlo Security, explains that: 
“With Isolation, not only is a phishing page fully isolated, it is put into read-only mode. So, the user can still view the page, they can scroll through and navigate it, but they can’t enter in any information.”

This is important as it means that if a user visits a
phishing page impersonating a bank for example, they would not be able to enter
their account details. The same goes for documents such as invoices. 
Isolation is a more advanced solution against phishing
attacks, and is ideal for organizations looking for the closest way to totally
eliminate phishing as a threat.  When
paired with email security, Isolation represents one of the most comprehensive
ways for organizations to stop phishing attacks. 
Read next: Browser Isolation Guide for Business
Phishing Simulation
An important way to stop phishing attacks is to see how effectively your employees can tell if an email is phishing or not. This helps admins to know how at risk their organization is from phishing, and helps to direct traning where it is needed. 
This has become a popular approach, with many vendors offering a
comprehensive platform to create simulated phishing email campaigns, and send
them out to users. Many of these same vendors also offer security awareness training
materials, which can be used after phishing simulation to train users who need
more help with identifying phishing emails. 
The best phishing simulation platforms provide a library of pre-built phishing simulation templates, that admins can customize to be more relevant to their business. They will be able to customize the text, call-to-action, and any images within the email. This allows them to make the email more difficult to identify as phishing, or more obvious if needed. Admins should also be able to customize landing pages, so they can tell users they have fallen for a simulated phishing email and that they should be alert for real threats.
Admins should then be able to send out simulated phishing emails to
individual users, groups or departments, with different levels of difficulty
for each group. They should be able to easily track users that fail the tests regularly,
and see trends across the organization. 
The main benefit of phishing simulation isn’t to catch out people who struggle with identifying phishing – instead, it’s one of the best ways to help users who struggle with cybersecurity issues. Phishing targets people, and ensuring that everyone in the organization is familiar with phishing, with ways to receive training and help to spot it, is an important factor in stopping phishing attacks. 
Read Next: Top Phishing Simulation Solutions
Security Awareness Training
Phishing attacks exploit human error to be successful. They don’t try and bypass security technologies, instead, they rely on human mistakes, reusing passwords, being fooled by well-crafted webpages or emails, and being too busy to check each email for signs of being a scam. They also exploit the fact that most people don’t know much about cybersecurity best practices. Most people have no idea how sophisticated the phishing attacks that cyber professionals see on a daily basis can be. 
An important step to combat this and increase awareness of threats and how to stop them is Security Awareness Training. Security Awareness Training vendors offer businesses a range of training materials, that often try to be very interactive so that user genuinely engage in learning more about security issues. 
Read Next: Our Guide To The Top Security Awareness Training Solutions
They teach users about the best ways to improve their security,
like using two-factor authentication, not reusing passwords, not clicking on
external email links from contacts they haven’t seen before or don’t look right
and checking the URL of websites. All of these are crucial for users to
successfully stop phishing attacks. 
This often comes in the form of gamified videos, quizzes presentations
and posters, delivered in bite-sized chunks to users to make sure they are easily
digestible. Many Security Awareness Training vendors also offer phishing simulation,
which allows admins to offer training to users that struggle with identifying
phishing attacks. 
Your users are your biggest security risk, and also your first
line of defence against security attacks. It’s crucial they are trained about
security issues and know the best steps to take to prevent them, especially when
it comes to stopping phishing. 
Read next: The Top Security Awareness Training Platforms for Businesses


The solutions in this article will help you to stop phishing attacks and reduce the likelihood your employees will inadvertently transfer money or reveal credentials to attackers. 
Social engineering can be very damaging, but implementing security awareness training and combining it with strong technological defences is the best way to prevent phishing attacks against your users and your organization. 














                            Ten Ways To Stop Phishing Attacks                        










Related Articles





The Top 11 Email Security Gateways









The Top 9 Security Awareness Training Platforms for Businesses









The Top 10 Web Security Solutions







 










 

 

 




Top Categories
Email Security
Endpoint Protection
Email Encryption
Email Archiving
Security Awareness Training
Multi-Factor Authentication
Single Sign On
Web Security
Cloud Back-Up and Recovery
Zero Trust Security
All Categories



Insights
Buyers' Guides
Interviews
Blog
Features
All Insights


Discover Expert Insights
About Expert Insights
Contact Us
Careers
News


For Sellers
Advertise With Us
Download Media Pack
Add Your Product/Service







© 2022 Expert Insights
Review Guidelines


Privacy Policy
Terms Of Use


Advertiser Disclosure
FAQs


Competition Matters






the Premerger Notification Office Staff




February 11, 2022


Skip to main contentAT&T Community ForumsCategoriesAsk a questionLeaderboardatt.comAT&T Community ForumsInternet ForumAT&T InternetAT&T Internet SecurityEMAIL SPAM - What You Can D...

Military Appreciation: Exclusive savings for military, veterans, and their families!
	

Need to update email settings?

Learn more

ATTU-verseCareCommunity Support • 6.7K MessagesFri, Apr 14, 2017 7:12 PMWho out there loves to be inundated with unsolicited email? This digital wasteland of mysterious messages clogging your inbox. Also known as SPAM, appropriately named after that mysterious meat like substance that most want nothing to do with in a nutritional diet. Well, if you like SPAM this article is not for you. If you don’t like SPAM like us here in the community forums this article will help you learn how to block/unblock email by sender.
You can block email messages from an unwanted sender. Messages will automatically delete from your inbox, spam, and trash folders. Unblocking is just as easy.
 
Learn what to look for here.
First, learn how to:
Block an email address
Sometimes it's necessary to block messages from a particular sender. Your AT&T email account makes it easy to block unwanted messages.
 
Follow these steps to block an email address:
 

Log in to your AT&T email account.
Select the gear icon, and then select Settings from the top-right corner of the page.
Select Blocked Addresses from the left-hand menu.
Enter the address you'd like to block in the Add an address field.
Select the Block button and then select Save. This email address is now blocked, and you will not be able to receive email messages from that address.

Now, learn how to:
Unblock an email address
If you change your mind and want to unblock an email address, it's easy.
Follow these steps to remove an email address from your blocked list:
 

Go to the Blocked Addresses page.
Select the email address you'd like to remove from the Blocked Addresses list.
Highlight the address.
Select the Remove button and then select Save. This will remove it from your list of blocked senders, and you can receive email from that address again.

Additional information
Learn more about blocking and unblocking

When you block an email address, your AT&T email account will automatically delete messages sent to you from that account.
You'll never see emails from blocked accounts in your inbox or any other email folders, including Spam and Trash.
If the unwanted email is coming from your AT&T email account, your account may have been hacked. Learn how to identify and regain control of a hacked, phished, or compromised email account.

 
-ATTU-verseCare



*I am an AT&T employee, and the postings on this site are my own and don't necessarily represent AT&T's position, strategies or opinions.



Still need help?  Ask a question! Our 1.4 million members typically respond within 1 hour.
Questions • Updated 2年前54.6K21ResponsesAccepted SolutionOfficial SolutionATTU-verseCareCommunity Support • 6.7K Messages5年前Are you getting a lot of spam? Is it getting on your nerves? Check out some helpful tips above to put a stop to it!
 
-ATTU-verseCare0car100opContributor • 1 Message4年前Where can I send suspected email spam, or fraudulent emails to at AT&T?00IHateSpammersContributor • 2 Messages4年前I use this service they help stop spam and help me get money for my spam.https://www.spamprivateeye.com/00VacationRentalTutor • 5 Messages4年前We are a legitimate business that has gotten on the SPAM block for AT&T. I first reported this issue 16 days ago per the AT&T instructions on the delivery failures. 6 days ago they said we would be removed from the block in 24 - 48 hours. We are still being blocked. I have been emailing them examples of the blocked emails about every day. I don't know what else to do. Any suggestions? Very UNIMPRESSED with their service and the dis-service they are doing to their email customers by blocking communications that their customers need. Based on this, I certainly would NOT recommend using them as your email provider!00fredziffelScholar • 109 Messages4年前You are not addressing the issue, case in point is "cbd@" SPAM. They are using a generator to continually change their email address (s) there are an infinite number of bogus addresses they can use and they are currently using cbd@ ----- . And you cannot successfully block anything starting with "cbd@" , I've tried it and the just move from my SPAM file to my inbox !0chloe254Tutor • 2 Messages4年前I have the same problem. I have pulled up the "raw data" and used Arin Who-Is IP lookup to find out where they're coming from, to my shock they're coming from Amazon Technologies, Inc., Amazon Web Services both out of Seattle WA.I'm a Prime customer of Amazon and incredibly disturbed by this intrusion.  They of course deny all knowledge of this slamming. I have received almost 1000 emails in about a month and blocking thru ATT is useless.At this point I am unsure how to handle it, changing my email service is a huge undertaking and I refuse to be punished because of these companies engaging in illegal behavior. ATT is responsible and should move to correct it ASAP.00IHateSpammersContributor • 2 Messages4年前Hi,00hank33Tutor • 21 Messages4年前This ATT advice to control spam/scam emails does not work. I blocked until I reached the 1000 blocked emails limit and ATT has not been helpful about what to try next. I also marked them all SPAM and sent those emails to five different ATT, Yahoo, & GOV addresses that are supposed to be doing something about those email senders. I am now experimenting with the filters but new random email addresses is making that effort futile as well.00_xyzzy_Expert • 15K Messages4年前@hank33 said:

I am now experimenting with the filters but new random email addresses is making that effort futile as well.

FYI, your effort was futile before you even began because the att/yahoo spam filters take precedence and user defined filters are not even looked at if the spam filters determine an item is spam to be placed the spam box.00poikkeusContributor • 3 Messages3年前It's important to know the difference between spam, unwanted emails, and junk email. It's good to know the difference between the three.  Unwanted emails are either personal emails you don't want to acknowledge, or advertising emails from vendors. You'll usually see them in your regular email box. To get rid advertising, navigate to the bottom of the page where you see the small print, and opt out of the unwanted email. Reputable vendors will typically discontinue unwanted advertising emails either instantly or within the week. Junk emails are a little more difficult to manage. These should appear in your email system; but, depending on the way your email is set up, you might end up some mix of advertising or unwanted emails. This is best solved by using filters using your ISP's webmail interface - the most direct way of managing the mail. If you can't fix it yourself, you should ask for someone in Support to help fix the problem.  Spam email is the most irksome problem for most users - the endless torrent of unwanted, unsolicited, and sometimes offensive ads that never seems to go away. Every time you set up a filter, more illegitimate emails appear in their place. This seems to be a major part of your issue, but I'm not certain. Don't ever respond to the spam emails; you'll just get more of the spam. I don't know the details of your situation, but I've found a way to manage them, and I'm pretty sure you can cut down on the spam. 1. Never, ever respond to spam, or even open the emails. Sometimes, the spam contains malware that can damage your computer. At the least, you'd be giving up your online privacy and security. 2. Divide your email system into two email accounts. The first section should be dedicated only to people or vendors you really trust. Ideally, you won't get any unwanted email from these users. And if you get advertising, you can always opt out of the emails. The second account should only be for less secure internet transactions. Finally, consider retiring the problematic email account and migrating to a new account with fresh passwords. 3. Avoid risky sites. They're rife with malware and spam. Also, some retailers sell your email list without your consent - another reason for migrating to a new account.4. Make sure your computer has gone through a malware scan. I can assure you that your system has been infected. There are several good free options.  00KeithBrownTutor • 3 Messages3年前It is virtually impossible to block today's email spam due to the huge number of valid top-level-domains00KeithBrownTutor • 3 Messages3年前Why can't we block email ALL messages by default and and accept ONLY those domains we specify (.com, .net, etc).  There are now over 1000 valid top-level-domains available and an unlimited number of sub domains for each of these (.gdxwmr.site, etc) so how is it possible to filter against all of these?  It's not...  That's why we must take a different approach to foil the spammers.00poikkeusContributor • 3 Messages3年前Spam can be pretty exasperating. Spam filters aren’t effective all the time, and that’s why judicious use of the Junk Mail box can solve this problem. I realize I don’t know the details of your issue, but a good general rule is to set up the Junk Folder in the client software (in my case, it’s Apple Mail), monitor the email to make sure you’re catching all the Junk emails…and then, once the Junk Mail issue is has been addressed, ignore the Junk Mail entirely.By concentrating on the client software, you have more flexibility to direct the Junk Mail results.Keep up the fight!00KeithBrownTutor • 3 Messages3年前Thanks so much for your reply poikkeus...  My issue is directly related to the latest trend unscrupulous spam providers have adopted to thwart standard spam filters by the misuse of valid top-level-domains (and subdomains).For example, just this morning I received the following messages:subject  >>>  Claim your free bottle of CBD Hemp Oil    from  >>>  Healthy Report (5khlPX3KTCTD@bluemoon.pw)subject  >>>  Learn How a Reverse Mortgage Loan May Help your Credit Card Problems    from  >>>  Get AAG Mortgage (jpakvzmqwn@patchtable.info)subject  >>>  Selling Your Home? Access Updated 2019 Realtor Rankings    from  >>>  HomeLight Top Realtors (gazwxilhons@chainsti.works)subject  >>>  Keith Need to borrow $1,000 - $10,000?    from  >>>  Loan Confirmation (Elizabeth@refracturable.xyz)subject  >>>  Protect your Home    from  >>>  Vivint Security Provider (izxedvwhmq@wasteejec.mobi)Every week, or so, these criminals change the domain they use and resend the same adsAnd the list goes on...  Every week, or so, these criminals change the domain they use and resend the same ads.  Like I stated previously, there are now over 1000 of these top-level-domains which makes maintaining a filter-list untenable (att.net limits you to 1000 filters) not to mention that it appears that valid domains can be subverted with garbage/invalid subdomains of .com and .net addresses, re: porbbym@xix.net.  Spammer technology has moved up a several notches and the email providers haven't been able/willing to keep up with the problem. The capability to, optionally, filter these expanded domains as a group would help immensely.  I'm so tired of spending ~20% of my time each day maintaining my filter list and I don't want to keep changing my email ID every time another site is hacked.  There has got to be a better way!0_xyzzy_Expert • 15K Messages3年前@KeithBrown said:

Spammer technology has moved up a several notches and the email providers haven't been able/willing to keep up with the problem.

Spammers know the spam fighting limitations of many of the popular free basic email services and construct their emails accordingly.  But not all ESPs are like that.  You just have to find them and usually be willing to pay for the privilege of using them.
 

The capability to, optionally, filter these expanded domains as a group would help immensely.

Last time I looked there were over 1500 gTLD's.  But generally it is not recommended you block a gTLD even if you could since you run the risk (albeit low) of blocking something legitimate.
 
While not perfect yahoo could improve there spam fighting ability with a few simple changes (not sure about their implementation so "simple" might be an exaggeration).  First allow contacts to override the spam filters,  Second, allow user defined filters, with at least their limited pattern matching capability, have precedence over the yahoo spam filters and adding a discard (drop on the floor) option when there is a match.   Blocked addresses then wouldn't be needed at all.  The yahoo user defined filters are not the most general pattern matching in the world (i.e., no globbing or regular expressions)  but it's better than not allowing their use at all for spam fighting.0012
Need help?

Ask a question

Related Conversations




Top FAQs





All About the 3G shutdown





Protect Yourself From Scams





Need Help With Your Bill?





Go faster with AT&T Fiber Internet





Staying Secure With OAuth





Answers to our Top FAQs






Did this help you?How can we improve?Tags unsolicitedunblock helpstopinundatedmessagesblockcsegspaminboxemailclog

















			New to the AT&T Community?
			Start by visiting the
			Community How-To.
		

			New to the AT&T Community?
			Visit the
			Community How-To.
		




















Find a store



Find a store




Make a store appointment



Make a store appointment




Coverage maps



Coverage maps




Learn about 5G



Learn about 5G













Contact us



Contact us



Help & Support



Help & Support



About AT&T



About AT&T




Feedback
 



Feedback
 






Ver en español
 



















































TechBuzz blog



TechBuzz blog




Community forums



Community forums
















Site map



Site map




Terms of use



Terms of use




Accessibility



Accessibility




Broadband details



Broadband details




Legal policy center



Legal policy center




Advertising choices



Advertising choices




Privacy center



Privacy center




Do Not Sell My Personal Information



Do Not Sell My Personal Information













©2022 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved.




















              







        If you are using Internet Explorer 11 please disable Compatibility View in order to continue using all community features.
        Learn more...

        If you are using Internet Explorer 10 (or prior) please update your browser to a newer version in order to continue using all community features.

The latest version of the following browsers are compatible with the AT&T Support Community website:

Mozilla Firefox
Google Chrome
Internet Explorer
Safari for Mac


Support



New to T-Mobile?
Switching is easy
Set up your device
Using the app
Sprint Migration Center
All get started topics




Ways to pay your bill
All about your bill
Line permissions
Your T-Mobile ID
Your PIN/Passcode
All account resources topics




T-Mobile Network
In-flight texting and Wi-Fi
Wi-Fi Calling
International roaming
Mobile Without Borders
All network & roaming topics




Find the right plan
Neftlix on Us
HotSpot plans
Voicemail
Use Mobile HotSpot
All plans support topics




Tutorials
Troubleshooting
Unlock your device
Change your SIM
T-Mobile eSIM
All device assistance topics




Account Hub
I-Billing
Home Office Internet
Collaborate
Line permissions
All business support topics






SUPPORT





New to T-Mobile?
Switching is easy
Set up your device
Using the app
Sprint Migration Center
All get started topics


Ways to pay your bill
All about your bill
Line permissions
Your T-Mobile ID
Your PIN/Passcode
All account resources topics


T-Mobile Network
In-flight texting and Wi-Fi
Wi-Fi Calling
International roaming
Mobile Without Borders
All network & roaming topics


Find the right plan
Neftlix on Us
HotSpot plans
Voicemail
Use Mobile HotSpot
All plans support topics


Tutorials
Troubleshooting
Unlock your device
Change your SIM
T-Mobile eSIM
All device assistance topics


Account Hub
I-Billing
Home Office Internet
Collaborate
Line permissions
All business support topics













Learn more about how to identify and prevent scams, spam, and fraud.
 


Block scams and spam
Types of call and message scams and what you can do
Prevent fraud on your T-Mobile account
Report Fraud
Additional resources


 



T-Mobile offers scam protection with Scam ID and Scam Block, and caller ID included at no additional charge.
The T-Mobile Scam Shield app lets you easily manage your free mobile scam protection tools from T-Mobile. You can activate Scam Block and Caller ID, see the calls T-Mobile has blocked on your behalf, mark favorites, and report likely scam calls.
You can block some text messages using Message Blocking.




Avoid using your T-Mobile number for non-T-Mobile contests, promotions, or newsletters.
Never download applications from unauthorized app stores.
Do not swap applications with friends using memory cards.



Purchase from a reputable retailer or manufacturer. 
Make sure the phone has been cleared. If you find any information stored in the phone, it may not be safe.
Check the device's IMEI hasn't been reported stolen on the Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association free stolen phone checker tool​.

 

 
Calls 

One Ring Call back scam is when an incoming call rings once before hanging up. You get a call from a number that looks like it is from the US but is not. For example, "649" goes to the Turks and Caicos and "809" goes to the Dominican Republic. Calling these numbers back may incur charges on your T-Mobile account.
Tips to avoid these scams
Turn on Scam Block.
Don't answer or return any calls from numbers you don't recognize.
Beware of callers from unknown numbers who immediately ask, “Can you hear me?” Disconnect or answer, “I can hear you.”
If you say "yes," the caller could record your response and reuse it elsewhere.


Before calling unfamiliar numbers, check to see if the area code is international.
If you do not make international calls, Contact Us.



 
Messages 


Don’t act on any message if you're suspicious of the content, even if it looks like it's from someone you know.
Never open a link in a text message unless you're certain that the message is from a trusted source.
If you have opened a suspicious link, change your T-Mobile ID password ​and other personal accounts, like banks and social media.

Text message (SMS) spam is any unwanted texts, often from companies, news sources, banks, restaurants, etc, you may receive. SMS spam should not be confused with Self-service short codes, which include T-Mobile short codes that we use to keep you informed about your account.

Messages sent from 3700 to 4299 and 9701 to 9901 are coming from a third party, usually an email provider.
These messages are how email is delivered to your MSISDN@tmomail.net as a text message.
Messages can also be delivered as an MMS and will show the sending email address.


You can opt out of subscription spam by visiting the promotion or newsletter's website.
Reply to text messages with STOP, END, CANCEL, UNSUBSCRIBE, or QUIT.
Don’t reply to unwanted messages if you’re unsure who sent it or it doesn’t provide an opt-out option.
After opting out, you may receive one more message confirming your request to opt out.


Copy the original message and send it to us at 7726 (“SPAM”). 
Select the text and copy the message.
Create a new message to 7726, paste the copied text, and send.
We'll reply with a confirmation text that will forward the message to the Security Center for analysis. The message and your details are encrypted, your identity won't be shared.


If the above tips don't work for you, you can change your phone number.





Add Account Takeover Protection by T-Mobile to each line to prevent fraudsters from gaining control of your lines by transferring your number to another carrier. Not available for prepaid customers.
Download the T-Mobile Scam Shield app to:
View Caller ID Name
Opt-in to caller ID
Turn on Scam Block
Report telemarketer, fraud, and scam calls
Scam block and Scam likely enabled incoming call display
Report unwanted or misidentified calls
Mark favorites





Make sure the only authorized users on your account are people you want to have access to information and make account changes.
Set up your Customer PIN/Passcode for when you call T-Mobile.
T-Mobile will never call you to ask for or verify your personal information unless you contact us first.



Set online permissions for each line on your account.
Change your T-Mobile ID password and security questions every few months.
Learn how to turn on two-step verification for extra security.

 

Use the Sprint Support page to report or dispute Sprint account fraud activity. T-Mobile customers, use the steps below.

Contact us as soon as possible.

 
Contacted by a Collection Agency 

Fraud Collection Dispute Form (Identity Theft Dispute)Use these steps if you are not a T-Mobile customer and you have been contacted by a collection agency regarding an outstanding debt with T-Mobile that you are disputing as Identity Theft. An investigation will be completed within 30 business days (10 business days for CA residents) of receiving all necessary information and documents. Details containing the outcome of the investigation will be sent to the email address provided on the Dispute form.

Use the Dispute form to submit all applicable details.
English dispute form
Espanol dispute form


Have the following documents available to upload to the form:
Copy of an identity theft police report
Copy of your state/government-issued ID





 
General Reports of Fraud 

Stolen identityIf you suspect a T-Mobile account was fraudulently opened using your identity:

Follow the checklist found on Identitytheft.gov to prevent more fraud.
File a police report and retain a copy.
Contact us as soon as possible.



 
FACTA Request (Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act) for T-Mobile and Metro 

As a victim of identity theft, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act (FACTA) entitles you to receive specific information pertaining to a disputed account/transaction under your personal information. Your request will be processed within 30 business days (10 business days for CA residents) from receipt of the written request, containing all necessary documents. The requested information will be sent by mail to the address provided during the request submission. 

Use the FACTA form to request information through FACTA.
Have the following documents available to upload to the form:
Copy of a police report for identity theft
Signed affidavit from the FTC
Signed written request detailing what information is being requested
Copy of your state/government-issued ID





 



www.donotcall.gov​- Federal Trade Commission
Register your phone number on the FTC National Do Not Call Registry.
If you continue to receive spam messages or calls, file a complaint with the FTC at the same website.


6 Ways to Avoid Telemarketing Fraud in the Scams & Fraud section on AARP website
Online safety tips and advice - Stop.Think.Connect website​
Spam and phishing - StaySafeOnline website​


Contact us however it’s most convenient for you.








Was this helpful?


Grow Your Legal Practice


Meet the Editors
















































Talk to a Lawyer









Grow Your Legal Practice





Shop By Products




Find a Lawyer




Legal Articles




Accidents & Injuries
Bankruptcy
Business Formation: LLCs & Corporations
Car Accidents
COVID-19: Laws and Your Rights
Criminal Law
Debt Management
Disability Law
Divorce & Family Law
DUI / DWI & Traffic Tickets
Employment Law
Foreclosure
Immigration
Landlords


LGBT Law
Nonprofits
Patent, Copyright & Trademark
Personal Finance
Real Estate
Small Business
Small Claims Court & Lawsuits
Social Security & Retirement
Tenants
Taxes
Wills, Trusts & Probate
Workers' Compensation





Talk to a Lawyer






Sign In






Grow Your Legal Practice


Meet the Editors


Sign In











Talk to a Lawyer
Free Consult  With A Lawyer








All
DIY Products
Lawyers
Articles








Issue: 


Near: 









Home
Legal Topics
Personal Finance
Consumer Protection

























By Amy Loftsgordon, Attorney









Hundreds of companies gather names, mailing addresses, and email addresses to sell to direct marketers. Those marketers then send unsolicited credit card offers, catalogs, and other junk mail, as well as, in many cases, unwanted commercial emails (called "spam") to thousands of people.
While it's nearly impossible to get off all direct marketing registers, you can remove your name from many mailing and spam email lists. By knowing exactly where to go and what steps to take, you can significantly cut down on the number of bulk mailings and spam emails you receive.

Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) (15 U.S.C. § 1681 and following), credit reporting agencies are allowed to include your name on lists that creditors and insurers use to make offers to you, even though you didn't initiate the process. (15 U.S.C. § 1681b(c)). The FCRA also provides you the right to opt out of receiving these offers (called "firm offers"), which prevents the agencies from providing your credit file information for these offers. (15 U.S.C. § 1681b(c)). You can opt out for five years or permanently.
How to opt out for five years. To opt out for five years, register online at the OptOutPrescreen.com website, which is managed by the three major credit reporting agencies (Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion) and another credit company (Innovis). You can also call 888-5-OPT-OUT (888-567-8688).
How to permanently opt out. To opt out permanently, you must print and fill out the form from the website and mail it to the address provided. You'll have to give some certain personal information, like your telephone number, name, Social Security number, and birth date. This information is kept confidential and is used only to process your opt out request.
The agencies will implement your opt-out request within five business days, but you might still get some credit offers because your name could have already been provided to companies that haven't mailed their offers to you yet.

To reduce the amount of other types of junk mail you receive, you can sign up for the Direct Marketing Association's (DMA) Mail Preference Service (MPS) opt-out program. This program gets you off the lists of all DMA subscribers, which include many national direct marketing companies.
The DMA opt-out option lasts for ten years and costs $3 or $2 as of late 2019, depending on how you register.

If you register online at the DMA consumer website, the cost is $2.
If you fill out the DMAChoice Mail-In Form with all required information, print it, and mail it to DMAchoice, DMA, P.O. Box 900, Cos Cob, CT 06807, you'll have to include a check or money order in the amount of $3.

According to the DMA website, processing your request by mail will take longer than online registration.

To reduce the amount of catalogs and other marketing mail you receive, you can opt out of the Epsilon database. This database compiles customer information from catalog companies and retailers. Epsilon subscribes to the DMA, so registering for the DMA Mail Preference Service should reduce the number of catalogs you get in the mail. But if you want to stop receiving catalogs and still receive other types of unsolicited mail, you can register for Epsilon and not the DMA program.
Here's how to register:

Send an email to [email protected] and include your full name (including middle initial), current address, and previous address if you've been at your current address for less than six months.
Send a notice (a letter) to remove your name from its mailing list to Epsilon, Attn: Privacy, P.O. Box 1478, Broomfield, CO 80038.


To stop junk mail from companies that aren't on lists that the major credit reporting agencies, the DMA, and Epsilon maintain, you'll have to contact those companies individually. Send a letter to the customer service department of the company that sends you catalogs or other unwanted mail and ask it to remove your name from its mailing list. Be sure to provide the company with all spellings of your name, and the names of any additional household members on the mailing label. If you're receiving junk mail for previous occupants at your address, provide those names too.


If You Want to Receive Some Mailings, But Not Others
If you want to receive some catalogs, promotional mailings, or other unsolicited mail—but not others—send a notice to remove your name from mailing lists to the companies discussed above. Then, send another letter asking those businesses whose mailings you do want to receive to add or keep you on their mailing list. Be sure to include in your letter a statement that you don't want your name sold, traded, or shared with any other company or business.



Getting lots of unwanted spam emails is extremely frustrating. To block many of these messages, register online for DMA's eMail Preference Service (eMPS). Your registration will get you off email spam lists and reduce the overall number of messages you receive.
By registering with eMPS, you'll remove your email from United States-based lists. All DMA members who send unsolicited commercial emails have to purge their email lists of the individuals who've registered with eMPS. But you'll continue to get emails from groups or advertisers who don't use eMPS to scrub their lists.

If a reputable company sent you a spam email, you can unsubscribe from that company's messages by clicking the unsubscribe link at the bottom of the email. Taking this action might take your name off the list immediately, or it could take you to a website where you have to click a confirmation button.
Some shady companies, however, will continue to send you messages even after you try to unsubscribe. You can report spam email to your email provider and also to the sender's email provider (if you can tell who the sender's provider is). Be sure to include the entire spam email and say that you're complaining about spam.

To get personalized advice about the laws covering unwanted junk mail and spam, talk to an experienced consumer protection lawyer.
­









Need a lawyer? Start here.




Practice Area


Please select...Airplane Business TransactionsAsbestosAsylumAuto AccidentAuto Accident (Spanish)AviationAviation AccidentsBaby FormulaBankruptcyBedsoresBelviqBusinessCPAPCarbon MonoxideChild CustodyChild Sexual AbuseChild SupportChurch Sexual AbuseCivil RightsCollaborative DivorceCommercial Real EstateConsumer ProtectionCovid-19Criminal DefenseDUI and DWIDebt SettlementDeportationDivorceDivorce MediationEarplugsElmironEmploymentEnvironmentEstate PlanningExpungementFamilyForeclosureGreen CardHeartburnHernia MeshIVCImmigration LawIntellectual PropertyLandlord and TenantLegal MalpracticeLitigationLong Term DisabilityMaritimeMedical MalpracticeMesotheliomaMilitary DivorceNursing Home or Elder AbuseOvertime PayParagardParaquatPatentsPersonal InjuryProbateProduct LiabilityReal EstateRideshare AssaultRideshare InjurySSDISSDITestSecuritiesSex CrimesSexual HarassmentTalcum PowderTaxTexas Power OutageTraffic TicketsTrucking AccidentUS CitizenshipUS VisaUnemploymentVapingVeterans DisabilityWeed KillerWorkers CompensationWrongful DeathWrongful Termination




Zip Code















How it Works

Briefly tell us about your case
Provide your contact information
Choose attorneys to contact you
















Related Products


More














101 Law Forms for Personal Use



Legal forms for your everyday legal issues --...






View More






















Get Professional Help




Zip Code












How It Works

Briefly tell us about your case
Provide your contact information
Choose attorneys to contact you










































Group 39


































Company Information 

About Nolo
Careers
Press Room
Blog
Contact Us
Customer Service
Tech Support
Meet The Editors



Products & Services 

Books & Software
New Arrivals & Coupons
Bestsellers
Legal Updates
Articles



Lawyer Directory 

Grow Your Practice
Find a lawyer
Lawyers by location
Lawyers by legal Issue
Tips on Hiring Lawyers



Free Legal Information 

Articles & FAQs
Legal Updates
Calculators
Law Blogs
Law Directory
Legal Research
Newest Articles



Sales 

Affiliates
Library
Trade











Copyright ©2022 MH Sub I, LLC dba Nolo ® Self-help services may not be permitted in all states. The information provided on this site is not legal advice, does not constitute a lawyer referral service, and no attorney-client or confidential relationship is or will be formed by use of the site. The attorney listings on this site are paid attorney advertising. In some states, the information on this website may be considered a lawyer referral service. Please reference the Terms of Use and the Supplemental Terms for specific information related to your state. Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of the Terms of Use, Supplemental Terms, Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. Do Not Sell My Personal Information


Why Abnormal/Products/Solutions/Customers/Partners/Resources/Careers/See a DemoGlossaryEmail filtering is the act of processing emails—incoming and sometimes outgoing—to classify and categorize them. This is usually done by an SMTP server. Email filtering is often used to detect spam, viruses, and malware before it reaches a user.Share via: Email filters can help detect spam, viruses, and malware before they land in your mailbox, and they’re a vital part of cybersecurity. Email filtering services sift through incoming and outgoing emails to classify and categorize them.Despite improvements in automated online spam filtering, it remains a fact of life. Although most are easy to spot, spam emails can be dangerous. Many cyberattacks start with a spam email, which is why email filters are crucial.You need a corporate email filter capable of deflecting the vast majority of attacks to prevent spam. Smart spam detectors save time, energy, and keep your organization protected. Learn how they work, why you should use them, and how to get one.Email filters analyze emails for common red flags. If the filter detects those red flags, the email is separated into a spam folder. Common signs of spam emails include:Bad IP address: If an email is coming from an IP address that has a bad reputation, the filter may flag the address and label the email as spam.Poor domain reputation: Like IP addresses, emails sent from domains previously associated with spam will likely trigger an email filter.Bulk emails: A high sending rate from a sender can indicate to a filter that an email is spam.Suspicious language: Emails with words like ‘free,’ ‘viagra,’ and ‘refinance’ can tip off a spam filter.Links in the email body: Spam filters can flag URLs, especially if they’re shortened or redirected.Email filters can scan and filter both incoming and outgoing emails. The latter is particularly important to identify a compromised account, which could lead to a surge in outgoing spam emails.The process of filtering spam is usually conducted automatically by an SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) server. SMTP servers reject, redirect, or quarantine an email depending on the contents and its anti-spam techniques.Most mainstream secure email providers already have these filters. Gmail, for example, categorizes emails as spam, promotional, or social based on the content and the sender’s reputation. Outlook automatically filters spam emails, and users can easily create custom rules to further categorize emails.Current email spam filtering services are more advanced than ever before, so most spam emails never successfully make it into your primary inbox. However, modern cyberattacks are built to outsmart standard email filters. Phishing emails, for example, often rely on targeted social engineering, rather than mass sending. Sophisticated phishing attacks don’t share the characteristics of common spam emails, so they can easily slip past traditional email spam filters.There are several types of spam filtering techniques in use today. A spam filter service will typically include a variety of filters bundled into one. Here are the spam filters you’re likely to encounter:Content: A content filter analyzes the text inside an email. It uses this information to decide whether something is spam or not. Specific trigger words will lead to the email being quarantined.Block List: These filters block emails based on the sender. Any address that's flagged as a spam email sender will have their emails quarantined immediately. With a business spam filter, you can also customize your block list.Header: Header filters examine the header of an email. They search for inappropriate sources and IP addresses to prevent previously flagged senders from simply creating new email addresses.Language: It’s assumed that people only want to receive emails in the languages they are fluent in. These email filters check for foreign languages to prevent communications in languages they are unlikely to understandRule-Based: A rule-based filter allows you to customize your filters by applying specific rules. For example, if there’s a specific word or phrase within the body of an email, you could instruct your filter to automatically send it to spam.Bayesian: A Bayesian filter learns your preferences by monitoring the emails you send to your spam folder. It observes what you mark as spam and attempts to decipher the trends and patterns so it can increase its accuracy.All these filters serve a purpose. And every premium spam blocker for email will likely include each of the above filters bundled together.Your built-in email filter through Microsoft or Google probably catches plenty of spam, but spam emails often slip through the cracks. Abnormal can catch the spam attacks that native email security misses. Take this example:How did Abnormal flag this email as spam? Three factors stood out:It’s from an unidentified vendor without a company name.It’s generic–the recipient name and employer aren’t mentioned. This can indicate the message was sent to numerous addresses across multiple companies.It was sent to multiple people within the same company.Abnormal constantly refines spam filters to an individual level. In other words, what’s spam for one user may not be spam for another user, based on their own preferences. By analyzing how each user interacts with emails, we create separate safe and block lists per inbox. See our spam filter in action by requesting a demo.Why should you invest in a business spam filter? There are several benefits to choosing a cutting-edge spam filter service for your organization, including:Increase employee productivityReduce the odds of a cyberattackAutomate your spam filteringStreamline your email inboxThe best part is it doesn’t have to cost a huge amount of money to take advantage of state-of-the-art online spam filtering. When combined with email security that stops advanced email attacks, you can protect your organization from the daily nuisance of spam, as well as the modern threats that lead to more serious financial and reputational damage.Email filters assess incoming (and sometimes outgoing) emails for spam content. They look at known red flags like sender reputation, trigger words, spoofed IP addresses, and suspicious links to identify spam.While spam seems harmless on the surface, it’s at best a productivity killer and at worst a potential path for a devastating cyberattack. Enterprise email providers like Microsoft and Google do a good job of blocking most spam emails by looking at common spam signals. But spammers are refining their techniques with increasing sophistication. That’s why you might still see some spam slip past native email filters and into your inbox.Abnormal Security’s email security service goes beyond standard email filters in blocking spam. If you want to stop spammers in their tracks, request an Abnormal Security demo.Prevent the Attacks That Matter MostSchedule a DemoFeatured Resources2021 Gartner Market Guide for Email SecurityEmail SecurityAnalyst ResearchH1 2022: Fraudsters Use Email in Phone Scams, Targeting 89% of OrganizationsEmail SecurityThreat ReportsThe Evolution of Ransomware: Victims, Threat Actors, and What to Expect in 2022RansomwareThreat Intel ReportsIntegrated Cloud Email SecurityAbnormal PlatformData SheetsCISO Fireside Chat: Hacking and Cybersecurity in a New EraBusiness Email CompromiseWebinarsSubscribe to our newsletter to receive updates on the latest attacks and new trends in the email threat landscape.Protect your organization from the attacks that matter most with Abnormal Integrated Cloud Email Security.See a DemoWhy AbnormalProductsIntegrated Cloud Email SecurityInbound Email ProtectionAccount Takeover ProtectionSOC AutomationAdditional Platform CapabilitiesSolutionsFor Microsoft OfficeFor Google WorkspaceCredential PhishingMalware and RansomwareSupply Chain CompromiseInvoice and Payment FraudSpam and GraymailBusiness Email CompromiseCloud Account TakeoverReplace Your Secure Email GatewayCustomersCustomers OverviewCustomer StoriesGartner Peer InsightsPartnersMicrosoft + AbnormalPartner PortalTechnology PartnersResource CenterResource CenterAbnormal BlogEngineering BlogAttack StoriesCustomer SupportCompanyAboutUpcoming EventsCareersTeamMachine Learning at AbnormalAbnormal Engineering SpotlightNews & PressAbnormal Business SchoolAbnormal Precisely Stops Zero-Day Email Attacks©2022 Abnormal Security Corp. All rights reserved.Responsible DisclosureDPATrust CenterStatusPrivacy PolicyTerms of UseContact UsSitemap


The creators of DECSYSTEM-20, a mainframe computer running a proto-operating system, sent out the first spam email to ARPANET users on May 1, 1978. What they perceived as a clever and modern approach to advertising, however, earned them instant and widespread infamy. In fact, the reaction was so severely negative that no one else created spam for the next 15 years. Then, between 1993 and 1996, spam bloomed on the newborn internet so aggressively that spam protection became a mandatory feature on all email accounts.
Today, spam remains a serious but manageable problem. Protecting a company and its users from spam emails is crucial for keeping computers and data safe. Likewise, to get around the ever more sophisticated attempts to keep it out of inboxes, spam itself is also evolving. Read on to learn about the latest breeds of spam, and how best to keep a business inbox safe from the risks it creates.

There are many different types of spam, ranging in the degrees of annoyance and intent of harm. Anyone who has ever owned an email—currently some 3.8 billion people—has experienced the displeasure of finding it in their inbox. Spam may take the form of:

Harmless but annoying advertisements from unscrupulous marketers.
Subscriptions for which users initially signed up but then started receiving more than expected.
Obvious scams from individuals claiming to be wealthy heirs or princes.
Emails with virus attachments sent to specific users or as a result of another person or company getting hacked.
Phishing and spoofing attacks from malicious actors targeting users for their login credentials or other sensitive information.

Spam may be easy to spot or—in the case of phishing emails—very difficult to identify. Likewise, phishing doesn’t always target victims directly. Consider the 2013 example of Target. A phishing ring targeted one of its vendors who had access to Target’s customer records. This breach, which affected 41 million retail cards, cost Target $118.5 million in fines.
That’s why it’s critical to develop infrastructure specifically meant to address it and to maximize the security of email accounts, devices, and the company’s servers.

Many ways exist to prevent spam from reaching a workplace email. Consider implementing the following strategies:

Both ISPs and email service providers have spam filters for their services. However, these filters can be further configured to maximize the amount of protection they provide. Likewise, with some internal emails, it may be possible to restrict incoming emails to known senders from vendors, clients, and other employees. This significantly reduces the chance that harmful spam will make it there.

A spam firewall protects mail servers from receiving spam, much in the same way that a regular firewall prevents viruses from reaching computer systems. Firewalls may be either physical or cloud-based services which help to keep a company email safe.

What seems to be a useful or interesting subscription may turn out to be more than expected. Likewise, despite attempts such as the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, many unscrupulous companies exist who will gladly sell emails to questionable buyers. Protect an email address by being cautious about where it’s given and to whom. And never use a work email for any personal services (shopping sites, social media, etc.)!

The case of Target shows how spam protection works best when it occurs alongside other forms of cybersecurity. For instance, antivirus software works in tandem with spam protection to identify hazardous attachments before they’re downloaded. It also can block suspicious activity on a server before any damage is done. Therefore, consider spam protection when developing the company’s cybersecurity strategy and take advantage of the way various tools complement one another.

These days, it’s all too easy to accidentally click on an attachment with a virus or phishing email which looks like the real thing. Phishing emails take many forms, from fake PayPal notifications to sites which mimic Google’s login screen. These sites trick users into entering their credentials. Once given, a hacker has their meal ticket to the company’s information.
Train staff on how to identify spam emails and to be vigilant. Better yet, make sure they know the proper login portals and the policies which the company will follow to ask for credentials.

Spam isn’t just annoying—it’s often downright dangerous. Companies need to protect themselves against it to avoid unwittingly giving cybercriminals access to their most valuable information. CDS can help with that. Solutions and strategies will vary according to a company’s specific infrastructure. However, they may include:

Security measures using third-party spam protection from partners such as Barracuda, Cisco or Webroot.
Development of a holistic cybersecurity strategy which includes spam protection.
Managed services which help monitor potential threats.


Since the mid-1990s, internet users have been forced to deal with the dreaded spam email. However, spam protection has come a long way. Today, businesses no longer have to fear the presence of spammers or hackers in an inbox. There are many strategies to reduce and eliminate spam—CDS can help.
Are you looking for better spam protection? CDS provides premier cybersecurity solutions for email spam protection and digital infrastructure. Contact us today to get started.


Under no circumstances should you reply to any address(es) that appear to allow you to be removed from a spammer's list. Doing so usually means you incur more spam, as the spammer will sell your address to other spammers. The fact that you reply means that your address is valid, and worth more in the underground market where working email addresses are sold. This is one deceitful approach spammers will use to filter out 'good' addresses from the bad.



Because spam is sent in a variety of ways, each message may need to be addressed individually.
DreamHost offers several tools to help assist you in preventing incoming spam. The anti-spam filters provide a filter before the mail is delivered to the MX (mail) machines for final delivery. You can also add custom message filters in your panel to target specific keywords.
There are also other third-party services that can be used to filter mail for you instead of using DreamHost’s filtering service.
Visit the following articles for further information:

Anti-spam overview
Message Filters




The first line of defense against junk is to enable spam filters for your domain. Visit the following article for further details:

How do I configure my Anti-spam settings?




If your nameservers are not hosted at DreamHost but you're hosting your email at DreamHost, you have previously set up MX records at your current hosting company. These MX records are responsible for routing email to your DreamHost mail server. Make sure that these MX records are pointing to your filter records. View the following article for further details:

MX Records






Anti-spam filters cannot be enabled with a domain using a legacy catch-all address. These addresses generate a lot of incoming spam anyway, so it’s a good idea to disable them.




Your second line of defense against incoming junk are the custom message filters you can create on your DreamHost panel.

Message Filters

These are filters you can create yourself to add your own custom rules. Sometimes, experienced spammers are able to send mail that bypasses the anti-spam filter scoring process or find ways to get their messages scored very low. In such cases, you’d need to create custom filters for spam that the anti-spam filter did not catch.
These filters are useful for various reasons, such as organizing your mailbox by having the filters move mail to other folders. These filters can also be set to delete mail that matches your rules or move them elsewhere.



After you have filtered Spam emails, they will be contained in a single folder. You can then delete them all at once in your email client. View the following article for instructions on how to do this using Webmail.

Deleting spam emails in Webmail





Anti-spam overview














Did this article answer your questions?




Sending feedback...


      This form is only for article feedback. If you require assistance, please contact support.
      
      How can we improve this page?
      










We'll use it to improve the Knowledge Base.



If you still require assistance, and you're an existing DreamHost customer, please contact support.
If you're not a customer yet, please contact our sales team for further assistance.




Article last updated August 25, 2021 21:51 PST.
        

Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn


Customer Portal




















Hosting


Solutions
Business
eCommerce
Agency
Blog
Personal
Web Hosting
WordPress Hosting
VPS Hosting
Dedicated Hosting
Reseller Hosting




Products
Domains
SSL Certificates
Site Builder
Email
Turbo
A2 Optimized


Sales & Support
Customer Portal
Contact Support
Contact Sales
A2 Knowledgebase
Which Hosting Is Right For You?


About
A2 Reviews
A2 Hosting Blog
Compare
Affiliate Program
Careers















Customer Portal






































Hosting



Solutions

Solutions
Business
eCommerce
Agency
Blog
Personal

Web Hosting
WordPress Hosting
VPS Hosting
Dedicated Hosting
Reseller Hosting





Products

Domains
SSL Certificates
Site Builder
Email
Turbo
A2 Optimized





Sales & Support

Customer Portal
Contact Support
Contact Sales
A2 Knowledgebase
Which Hosting Is Right For You?





About

A2 Reviews
A2 Hosting Blog
Compare
Affiliate Program
Careers





Customer Portal


























Nuestra base de conocimientos sólo está disponible actualmente en inglés. Estamos en el proceso de traducir estas páginas y las publicaremos cuando estén disponibles.


HomeWeb Hosting Knowledge BasecPanel control panelcPanel Mail FeaturesHere




This article describes how to use the Spam Filters tool in cPanel to reduce the amount of unwanted e-mail (spam) in your e-mail accounts. Spam Filters (powered by Apache SpamAssassin™) is an automated filtering system that uses a variety of techniques to identify and filter spam messages.Table of ContentsSpam Filters
Enabling Spam Filters
Configuring Mail Spam Filters
Disabling Spam Filters

More Information
Spam Filters
Spam can be a major annoyance, with messages filling up user inboxes. Additionally, spam messages can contain virus attachments or malicious links.
When you enable Spam Filters, powered by Apache SpamAssassin™, it uses scores to rate the likelihood that a message is spam. You can manage messages that Spam Filters marks as spam in a number of ways. For example, you can route messages marked as spam to specific folders, or you can automatically delete them.
Although you can configure Spam Filters to automatically delete messages marked as spam, A2 Hosting does not recommend enabling this feature. Instead, you should use a filtering rule that redirects suspected spam messages to a spam folder. For information about how to do this, please see this article.
Enabling Spam Filters
To enable Spam Filters in cPanel, follow these steps:
Log in to cPanel.If you do not know how to log in to your cPanel account, please see this article.
In the EMAIL section of the cPanel home screen, click Spam Filters:

On the Spam Filters page, click Process New Emails and Mark them as Spam.To enable auto-deletion of spam messages, click Automatically Delete New Spam (Auto-Delete).To change the deletion trigger level, click Configure Auto-Delete Settings. In the Auto-Delete Threshold Score text box, type the score number, and then click Update Auto-Delete Score.
A lower score is more restrictive. For example, an auto-deletion score of 1 is very aggressive and deletes many messages. An auto-deletion score of 10 is more permissive and allows more messages through without deleting them.


Configuring Mail Spam Filters
You can further customize the parameters to control how Spam Filters examines incoming messages. You can also define whitelists (trusted senders) and blacklists (known spammers).
 
To customize Spam Filters in cPanel, follow these steps:
Log in to cPanel.If you do not know how to log in to your cPanel account, please see this article.
In the EMAIL section of the cPanel home screen, click Spam Filters:

On the Spam Filters page, click Show Additional Configurations.To configure whitelists, click Edit Spam Whitelist Settings:Click Add A New “whitelist_from” item, and then in the whitelist_from text box, you can specify e-mail addresses that are trusted senders.
Click Update Whitelist (whitelist_from).
To configure blacklists, click Edit Spam Blacklist Settings:Click Add A New “blacklist_from” item, and then in the blacklist_from text box, you can specify e-mail addresses that are known spammers.
Click Update Blacklist (blacklist_from).
To configure spam score settings, click Configure Calculated Spam Score Settings:Click Add A New “scores” item.
In the scores list box, select the test name, and then type the score value.
A2 Hosting recommends using the following test scores:
URIBL_DBL_SPAM 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0
URIBL_WS_SURBL 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0
URIBL_BLACK 10.0 10.0 10.0 10.0
T_DKIM_INVALID 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
RDNS_NONE 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.8
 The URIBL_* tests check blacklists such as Spamhaus. The RDNS_NONE test checks to see if the sending IP address has a reverse DNS entry, while the DCC_CHECK test checks the DCC checksum database to detect bulk mail. If you later want to reset these scores to their default values, use the following test scores:
URIBL_DBL_SPAM 0 1.7 0 1.7
URIBL_WS_SURBL 0 1.659 0 1.608
URIBL_BLACK 0 1.775 0 1.725
T_DKIM_INVALID 0 0 0 0
RDNS_NONE 0 1.1 0 0.7
Click Update Scoring Options.
Disabling Spam Filters
You can disable Spam Filters whenever you want. For example, if you are unable to receive a non-spam e-mail message, you can disable Spam Filters and ask the sender to resend the message so it reaches your account.
To disable Spam Filters in cPanel, follow these steps:
Log in to cPanel.If you do not know how to log in to your cPanel account, please see this article.
In the EMAIL section of the cPanel home screen, click Spam Filters:

On the Spam Filters page, click Process New Emails and Mark them as Spam. cPanel disables Spam Filters.
More InformationFor general information about SpamAssassin (which runs Spam Filters,) please visit http://spamassassin.apache.org.




Get Email Hosting



Product: Managed Dedicated Server
Managed VPSReseller HostingShared Hosting


Level: Beginner



Other Articles in This Category

E-mail Accounts
Import e-mail accounts and forwarders
Accessing webmail through cPanel
Autoresponders
Mailing Lists
E-mail forwarders
Managing cPanel Mail Exchanger (MX) records
Unwanted email (spam)
Filtering spam
E-mail Filtering
Managing e-mail deliverability settings
Changing the time zone in webmail
Importing and exporting webmail contacts
Forwarding incoming e-mail messages to a script file
Accessing webmail clients directly
'550 Sender verify failed' error message
DMARC
E-mail messages do not forward to Gmail accounts
E-mail messages do not forward to Outlook.com (Hotmail) accounts
Exceeding mailbox storage quotas
Barracuda Spam Firewall
Recovering access to your Barracuda Spam Firewall account
Mailing list recipients do not receive list messages
Synchronizing local clients with webmail calendars and contacts
Remote MX Wizard
Configuring e-mail accounts through webmail
Managing e-mail disk usage in cPanel
Using Horde webmail
Filtering incoming e-mail messages by IP address
Spam Box
Using the Shared Address Book in cPanel

Show More




Related Articles


Managing e-mail deliverability settings


E-mail Filtering


Filtering spam


Preventing outgoing e-mail from being marked as spam


Show More



SUGGEST AN ARTICLE


Grow Your Web Business
Subscribe to receive weekly cutting edge tips, strategies, and news you need to grow your web
business.




No charge. Unsubscribe anytime.





Did you find this article helpful? Then you'll love our support. Experience the A2 Hosting difference today and get a pre-secured, pre-optimized website. Check out our web hosting plans today.






HOSTING

Web Hosting
WordPress Hosting
Managed WordPress Hosting
VPS Hosting
Managed VPS Hosting
Dedicated Hosting
Managed Dedicated Hosting
Reseller Hosting
Compare Hosting


SOLUTIONS

Business
eCommerce
Agency
Blog
Personal
Linux
cPanel Hosting


PRODUCTS

Domains
SSL Certificates
SiteBuilder
Email
Turbo
A2 Optimized


SALES & SUPPORT

Customer Portal
Submit a Support Ticket
Contact Support
Contact Sales
A2 Knowledgebase
Which Hosting Is Right For You?


COMPANY

About A2
A2 Reviews 
A2 Hosting Blog
Compare
Affiliate Program
Careers
Data Centers




















+1 (734)-222-4678





Chat with Sales


FOLLOW US








* The promotional price is for the first term only and renews
at the regular rate.








GET OUR NEWSLETTER
Web development tips, marketing strategies and A2 Hosting news sent to your inbox.













Copyright © A2 HOSTING 2022
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
99% Uptime Commitment
Money Back Guarantee
Sitemap






We use cookies to personalize the website for you and to analyze the use of our website. You consent to this by clicking on "I consent" or by continuing your use of this website. Further information about cookies can be found in our Privacy Policy.


Mortgage
                            



Personal Loan
                            



Real Estate
                            



Auto
                            

















Buy A Home            



Refinance            



Learning Center            



Rates            



Español            





                                    (833) 326-6018
                                    





Talk To Us            



Sign In            





Sign In            







                        Buy A Home
                    





                        Refinance
                    





                        Learning Center
                    





                        Rates
                    





                        Español
                    








                                    (833) 326-6018
                                








                                    Talk To Us
                                




















Home



		Learn
	


stop-junk-mail-return-to-sender                











Erica Gellerman4-minute read 

December 22, 2021

Share:





























 




How frustrating is it to open your mailbox only to be greeted by piles and piles of junk mail? Whether it’s credit card offers, cable and internet service provider advertisements, or a multi-page catalog, this junk mail not only wastes your time, but it also wastes paper.

The junk mail experience can be exacerbated when you move to a new home and are still receiving mail (including junk mail) for a previous resident.

If junk mail is making you go a little senseless, it’s time to put a stop to it. This article will show you how to stop different types of junk mail, so you’re greeted by a clean and uncluttered mailbox.





 





It’s been months since you’ve moved into your new home, but every day you get mail for the people who lived there before you. How frustrating! Before you rip it up and toss in the trash, stop. Destroying mail that wasn’t intended for you is a crime.

The U.S. Postal Service has a better solution for you. If you receive mail that should be going to a previous resident, simply write “not at this address” on the envelope. Don’t erase or write over the address, and make sure that your handwriting is legible.

Drop it off at a mail collection box or hand it back to your mailperson. They’ll handle the rest. With any luck, you’ll start receiving fewer pieces of mail intended for someone else.





 

Get approved to refinance.
See expert-recommended refinance options and customize them to fit your budget.



Start My Application
                    


 





Now, let’s get into junk mail. Junk mail is any mail that you receive that you didn’t ask for. This can include prescreened credit card offers, company catalogs, and service offers (for example: from cable and internet providers).

Each type of junk mail brings a slightly different method for getting rid of it.

If you’ve worked hard to build up a good credit score, there’s an unfortunate consequence: prescreened credit offers will flood your mailbox. If you want to stop receiving them, don’t worry, there are ways to make this happen.

To opt out of prescreened credit card offers for 5 years, call 1-888-5-OPT-OUT or visit optoutprescreen.com and complete the process online.

To opt out of prescreened offers permanently, visit optoutprescreen.com and print out the permanent opt-out election form. You’ll need to mail it in to complete the process.

Unwanted catalogs can clutter up your home so quickly and they are a massive waste of paper that you just toss into the trash.

Nonprofit Catalog Choice is working to help consumers eliminate junk mail. It’s a free service and easy to use. Simply search for the company sending you the unwanted catalog, create an account, and submit your request to get off the mailing list. They’ll send your opt-out request to the merchant, though they can’t guarantee you’ll be removed from the list.

If service offers for internet, cable, and other companies are driving you senseless, know that you can put a stop to these as well.

The Data and Marketing Association created DMAChoice.org to help consumers get off direct mailing lists they no longer want to be on. Using DMA Choice, you can cut back on the service offers that you receive selectively or you can choose to opt out of everything. They’ll also be able to help you opt out of catalogs as well.

To get started, register at DMAChoice.org and pay a $2 registration fee (which is good for 2 years).

DMA Choice doesn’t cover all direct mail, but they do cover approximately 80% of the direct marketing mail that is sent in the U.S., so you should see your mailings reduce significantly. It will take up to 90 days to stop receiving catalogs and other marketing mail, so be patient!





 





Your digital mailbox can get just as cluttered as your physical mailbox (and possibly even more). It takes some time, but you can clean up your inbox and reduce unwanted promotional emails. You have a couple of options — do it yourself or use a service to manage the process for you.

Either way, if your inbox is overflowing with unwanted emails, it is worth the time and effort that it takes to unsubscribe.

If you want to do it yourself, you’ll need to spend a while unsubscribing from unwanted emails. It can take time as you need to open each email, scroll to the bottom, and fill out the unsubscribe form. Though this is slow, it’s effective.

You may also have the option to mark the incoming email as spam, letting your email know that you want the spam filters to catch these types of emails in the future. If that isn’t working well enough, you can block certain email addresses from being able to contact you.

If you go the DIY route, be sure that you opt-out of receiving emails when you give a third party your email address. You can usually check or uncheck the box allowing them to email you promotional items (look carefully because it can be hard to find).

Not into doing this work yourself? Sane Box can help. They’ll manage your inbox and only show emails that they think are important. All other email (including junk email) will be put into a separate email folder that you can look through later if you need to.





 





Getting rid of junk mail is a process and it can be frustrating if you’ve followed all of the steps and it’s still slipping through the cracks. In those cases, you can try calling each sender and asking to be taken off their mailing list.

Ridding yourself of junk mail can take time. You may need to do more than one of the processes described here, but once you’re finally free of junk mail, you’ll be so thankful you spent the time and energy making it happen.





 

See how much cash you could get from your home.
Apply online with Rocket Mortgage® to see your options.



Start Now
                    






























Erica Gellerman is a CPA, MBA, personal finance writer, and founder of The Worth Project. Her work has been featured on Forbes, Money, Business Insider, The Everygirl, The Everymom and more.







Viewing 1 - 3 of 3







Refinancing                         -                         6-minute read
                    

Victoria Araj                         -                         May 10, 2022
                    

                    Wondering how a cash-out refinance will affect your taxes? Read our guide to learn about navigating the ins-and-outs of any possible complications.
                

                    Read More
                









Servicing                         -                         6-minute read
                    

Hanna Kielar                         -                         April 11, 2022
                    

                    Mortgage documents contain important information from your lender that are good to keep. Learn why and how long you should keep them with our handy guide.
                

                    Read More
                









Refinancing                         -                         4-minute read
                    

Patrick Chism                         -                         May 03, 2022
                    

 Cash-out refinance or home equity loan? Both can help you reach your financial goals. Read how they differ and see which is right for you.
                

                    Read More
                


















                                            Buy a home, refinance or manage your mortgage online with America's largest mortgage lender¹
                                        






                                            Get a real estate agent handpicked for you and search the latest home listings
                                        






                                            Get a personal loan to consolidate debt, renovate your home and more
                                        






                                            Find and buy the perfect car or truck from thousands of vehicles, all in one marketplace
                                        









Buy A Home
                                                                



Refinance
                                                                



Rates
                                                                



Loan Options
                                                                



Make A Payment
                                                                



Legal Info
                                                                



FAQs
                                                                








Rocket Mortgage
                                                                



Careers
                                                                



Disclosures And Licenses
                                                                



Terms Of Use
                                                                



Email And Text Policy
                                                                



Privacy Policy
                                                                



Do Not Sell My Personal Information
                                                                



Social Responsibility
                                                                



Press Room
                                                                








Talk To Us
                                                                



Share Your Screen
                                                                



Communication Opt-Out
                                                                








Site Accessibility
                                                                













facebook







instagram







twitter







youtube



































                                    Rocket Mortgage received the highest score in the J.D. Power 2014 – 2021 Primary Mortgage Servicer Satisfaction Studies of customers’ satisfaction with their mortgage servicer company. Visit jdpower.com/awards for more information.
                                




                                 1Based on Rocket Mortgage data in comparison to public data records.
                            

                                Rocket Mortgage, 1050 Woodward Ave., Detroit, MI 48226-1906
                            

                                NMLS #3030. Go here for the Rocket Mortgage NMLS consumer access page.
                            

                                ©2000-2022 Rocket Mortgage, LLC. All rights reserved. Lending services provided by Rocket Mortgage, LLC, a subsidiary of Rocket Companies, Inc. (NYSE: RKT). 
                            

                                Rocket Mortgage, LLC, Rocket Homes Real Estate LLC, RockLoans Marketplace LLC (doing business as Rocket Loans), Rocket Auto LLC and Truebill Inc. are separate operating subsidiaries of Rocket Companies, Inc. (NYSE: RKT). Each company is a separate legal entity operated and managed through its own management and governance structure as required by its state of incorporation and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

                            

                                Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc. registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.
                            

                                Wear OS by Google and Google Play are trademarks of Google LLC.


AdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisementby Laura SpencerSep 1, 2017Read Time:13 minsLanguages:EnglishEspañolEmailProductivitySecurityHow-To
According to a report
from technology market research firm The Radicati Group, we're getting more
spam today than ever before. 
In 2015, the average number of spam messages received by an average
business person was 12 each day. By 2017, the average number of spam messages
received each day had risen to 16—that's a significant increase in only a few years.

If you count email lists you subscribe to and no longer want, the average number of unwanted junk emails you receive jumps dramatically.
Unwanted email is more than annoying. Spam is a huge problem for businesses, especially when you consider that spam is often a vehicle for phishing schemes and other types of email fraud. It's also a huge waste of your time—especially if a spam message appears to be legit at first. Plus, all those email subscriptions you no longer want could keep you from seeing an important message that you need.
In this article, you'll learn seven methods that'll help you
to reduce the number of unwanted junk email messages you receive each day. In the
process, you'll save time—which helps you to be more productive.

To learn even more about keeping your email inbox
manageable, grab our Free eBook: The Ultimate Guide to Inbox Zero Mastery. It's available for free with a subscription to the Tuts+ Business newsletter.
Now, let's look at how to stop getting junk and spam email—with seven ways to quickly reduce the number of unwanted messages you receive in your inbox:

Nearly every professional email service offers a filter service. Learn
how to make the most of yours:
In Microsoft Outlook, for example, you can set up rules to
send newsletters you subscribe to directly to a designated folder. This keeps
them out of your main email inbox. That way, you can review them at your leisure. Microsoft Outlook
also has a built-in Junk Email filter that sends suspected spam messages to
your Junk Email folder. You can also change the level of filtering you have set up.
Yahoo Mail sends all email through a spam filter before any
rules are applied. Suspected spam messages are automatically sent to a Spam
folder. They also provide you with the ability to set up folders to receive certain
types of emails. 
Gmail includes tools for filtering email and blocking
spam as well. For a complete tutorial on how to filter email messages in Gmail, study
this Envato Tuts+ tutorial:
Gmail
How to Filter & Block Unwanted Emails (Spam) in Gmail
Laura Spencer
Spam protection is often included with firewalls and
antivirus software. Check yours to make sure that this feature is activated.

It may seem obvious that spam messages shouldn't be responded
to and links shouldn't be clicked. This isn't as easy as you might think. Spam
authors often go to extreme measures to make spam email look legit. The subject
line of a spam message may claim that there's a problem with your bank, or it
may announce that you've won a valuable prize.
When you receive a message, even a legitimate one, look at
it carefully before you open it. Here are some clues that an email message
might be spam:


You don't
recognize the sender address. The sender address may resemble a sender
address you know and trust. When you look at it closely, though, you realize it's off a
little bit. The corporate name may be slightly misspelled. There may be weird
characters in the email address. I once received an email that looked as if it
came from a family member. When I looked at the domain name closely, I realized
that my family member didn't have an email registered at that domain.

The
subject line makes outrageous claims. Spammers hope to lure you into
opening their email with the message subject line. They play upon your fears by
claiming something is wrong (like financial problems or trouble with a password)
or your greed (by offering a prize). The subject line may even include the word:
Urgent. This is designed to get your attention. Don't let yourself become a
victim of these kinds of attempts.

The email
is full of spelling errors and poor grammar. Real businesses
typically check their messages carefully for errors before they send them. They
should catch most, if not all, mistakes. Spammers are in a rush and just want
to get the message out there so they can continue whatever scheme they're
trying.

The
message contains an attachment. Never open an attachment from a sender you
don't know and trust. Malware is often built into spam messages with
attachments. Opening an attachment to a spam message could expose your system
to a computer virus, worm, or other type of cyber-attack.  

So what happens if you click a link or respond to a spam message?
Besides the obvious direct threats (malware, viruses, etc.), clicking or
responding to a message alerts the sender that they've reached an active email.
It also lets them know that their threat or offer was somewhat
effective—either you're afraid there's the trouble the email threatened or you're
hopeful you'll win an unexpected prize. Either way, you can now expect to
receive even more spam messages.
Sometimes even opening a spam message is enough to alert the
spammer that your mailbox is active and regularly monitored. While there are
legitimate uses of email tracking software that tells email senders whether a
message has been opened or read, spammers sometimes use these same tools for illicit purposes. 
To learn more about email tracking software, study our helpful tutorial on: How to Know If Someone Has Opened and Read Your Email. 

Have you ever wondered how spammers get your email address?
Here are some common methods spammers use to get email addresses:


They find it online. If you've got a website, a social media presence, or just an
online profile, your email address is probably published on the Internet. If your
email is online, scammers can use scanning software to find it.

They generate random email addresses. The spammer may not have your email
address at all. They may be using software to generate possible email addresses
for a domain name. It would take forever to do this manually, but software can
generate email address possibilities quickly.

They buy lists.
Some unscrupulous companies and organizations sell lists of email addresses
from their files. While this practice may seem unethical, you may unwittingly
give a company permission to do this when you sign up with them.

Reduce the likelihood that a spammer gets your email by taking
the following precautions:


Don't
publish your email online. This can be tricky, since many of us rely on
the Internet for business. But there are ways around it. Have prospects
fill out a contact form on your website, for example. This lets you see their email
address before they see yours. Also, since email scraping and scanning software
often looks for the @ symbol, describe your email rather than give it to keep it
from getting scraped. Software is less likely than a human to decipher "[my name] at [this
domain]".

Limit who
you give your email to. Whether you sign up for a service, make an online
purchase, or enter a contest, you'll probably be asked to provide your email
address. If it's optional and you don't think they need it, don't provide it. 

Pay
attention when you do give your email out. When you provide your email
address, study the privacy policies and other notifications. Often, consumers
unwittingly agree to receive messages from "partner companies"
because they don't read the notifications when they open their account. If you
can, opt out of receiving partner messages to reduce the volume of email
received.  

Consider
using a disposable email. A disposable email allows you to sign up for
services or other accounts without providing your email information. It also
allows you to send an email or post a comment online anonymously. Usually, they're
temporary or throwaway accounts. To learn more about disposable accounts, review
our tutorial: Beginner’s
Guide to Disposable Email Addresses.


Junk mail often consists of hackers trying to access your
email account using a technique called phishing. By sending a junk email that appears
to be legit, they try to get you to share personal information—such as
your email password.
Believe me, the last thing you want is for hackers to get
into your email account. Hackers and fraudsters target your email account
because it may contain other sensitive information. You may receive bills or
account statements through email that include your account number. Or they may
use your email to reset the password on some of your other accounts—locking you out
and giving them access.
Setting up strong passwords is one of the most essential
email security measures you can take. It ensures that only you can access and
send messages from your email account. The following article discusses Gmail
passwords, but some of the principles also apply to other email providers as well:
Gmail
How to Work With Gmail Passwords Safely & Not Get Hacked
Laura Spencer
If you send a lot of sensitive material or financial data
through email, consider email encryption to keep others from gaining access to
your messages. Some email providers provide encryption as part of their
service, but many don't. To learn more about email encryption, study our
tutorial series: It's
Time to Encrypt Your Email.  

Most email services allow you to block messages from certain
senders. Many also allow you to flag a message as spam.
If your email provider offers these services, take advantage
of them. You may think that deleting a spam message is enough, but all that
does is remove one message from your inbox. 
When you block messages from a certain sender, that sender
cannot use that same email address to send you more messages. (Of course,
there's nothing that keeps them from continuing to spam you using a different
email address.)
When you flag a message as spam, you may be helping to
strengthen the email provider's anti-spam filter. Not every email provider
handles messages flagged as spam the same way. For many providers, if a lot of people
report the same email address for spam, that email account may be
suspended by the provider.
The potential harsh consequences for the sender are one
reason why it's important to remember that not every unwanted message you
receive is spam. 
For example, if you signed up for a newsletter several years
ago, but no longer read it and don't want to get it any longer, that's not spam.
That's a legitimate newsletter you signed up for. Likewise, if you ordered a
pizza and didn't notice that you opted in to receive promotions from the pizza
company—that's not spam. The best way to deal with legitimate mailing lists
you no longer want to be on is to unsubscribe. Let's look at that.

The laws vary depending on where you're located, but in many
locations commercial email senders must provide the recipient with a way to opt
out of receiving commercial emails. That means when you get an email from
someone who wants your business, that same email should also include a way for
you to be removed from the list for similar emails. 
Commercial email messages include newsletters, promotional
messages, and other messages asking you for your business.
The most common type of opt-out that you'll see is an
unsubscribe link, which is usually found at the bottom of a commercial email
message. Here's an example of an unsubscribe link from the bottom of one of the
emails I received in my Yahoo Email account:
When you click on an Unsubscribe link, you'll usually be
taken to a screen that confirms that you no longer wish to receive emails from
the organization.
Be cautious about using the Unsubscribe link. Some
spam messages also include unsubscribe links. Instead of unsubscribing you from the
spammer's email list, the link may take you to a site that attacks your computer.
Even if you're not taken to an attack site, the spammer can get a lot of
information about you and your computer when you click on the link. 


So, while clicking the Unsubscribe link can be a good way to
stop getting messages from legitimate businesses, it can also be dangerous if it
happens to be in an email sent by a spammer. If you recognize the sender and
know for sure that you once signed up to get the messages (such as with a
newsletter), go ahead and use the Unsubscribe link. If you don't recognize the sender or
suspect the email isn't legitimate, don't click Unsubscribe.
There are also tools that can help you to manage your email
subscriptions. One such tool is Unroll.me,
which analyzes your inbox, identifies your subscriptions, and combines them
into a single daily message. You can also use the tool to unsubscribe from
subscriptions you don't want. 
Note: Keep in mind, though, that while Unroll.me is a popular and easy-to-use service, its business model may involve selling anonymized user data to other companies. This is something to consider carefully before signing up. Learn more about the issue as covered in the New York Times. Also, if you have Unroll.me set up on your Gmail account but would like to remove it, here's how.

As a last resort, if your email account has become overrun
with unwanted messages, you may need to delete it.
It seems drastic, but sometimes deleting your email account
and starting fresh is the only thing to do. If the number of unwanted emails
you receive greatly exceeds the number of wanted emails, it might be time to
take this step.
Before you delete an email account, review the messages in it that you want to receive. Be sure to let these senders know of your new email address. Also,
remember to change your email address on any accounts that are linked to your
old email address or you could lose access to those accounts if you forget your
password.
Most email platforms let you delete your account easily. As
an example, the instructions for deleting an email account in Gmail are in this
tutorial:
Gmail
How to Quickly Delete Your Gmail Account Permanently
Laura Spencer

You now know
how to stop getting junk email. With the methods described here, you're not
defenseless against spam or other unwanted email messages. Take control of your
inbox to keep from getting email you don't want.
Don't waste
any more time on junk email. Start using several, or all, of the techniques in
this article today. 
Also, review this Envato Tuts+ tutorial on email management strategies or download our free PDF eBook: The Ultimate Guide to Inbox Zero Mastery. It's available for free with a subscription to the Tuts+ Business newsletter.
Disclaimer: Note that I'm not an information security expert. This post is based on a compilation of recommended best practices and my own experiences as an email user.
AdvertisementEmailProductivitySecurityHow-To
Did you find this post useful?



      Yes
    


      No
    




Would you like to provide feedback (optional)?



Cancel
Submit




Laura Spencer is our Senior Associate Business Editor here on Tuts+. She uses her business knowledge to help a wide variety of audiences. By sharing her knowledge in well-researched articles, she hopes to help others do well. Laura graduated with a degree in business.  

Besides Tuts+, Laura's work has been published on many sites including Vandelay Design Blog, FreelanceM.ag, Freelance Folder, Lubbock Avalanche Journal, Woman's Day, LifeHacker, and more. She's also written over 40 business study guides for continuing education companies. 

Laura has also managed her own writing business since 2002. Before that, she worked in corporate America as a technical writer and also as a marketing writer. 

As a lifelong learner, Laura continues to seek out better information to help her readers. Check out her latest ideas on her blog. TXWriterFeed Like Follow Weekly email summarySubscribe below and we’ll send you a weekly email summary of all new Business tutorials. Never miss out on learning about the next big thing.Update me weeklyAdvertisementAdvertisementAdvertisement


Skip to contentMenuMenuThe following navigation element is controlled via arrow keys followed by tabMy AccountMy AccountCard AccountsCreate Your Online AccountAccount HomeConfirm Your CardStatements & ActivityAccount ServicesCard BenefitsBusiness AccountsSmall BusinessMerchant HomeAmerican Express @WorkOther AccountsSavings AccountsMembership Rewards® Point SummaryBlueBird Alternative to BankingInternational Payments for BusinessesCredit Tools and SupportFree Credit Score & ReportSet Your Credit Score GoalsCreditSecure®Forgot User ID or Password?Security CenterDownload the Amex Mobile AppUnited StatesChange CountryCardsCardsPersonal CardsView All Credit CardsCheck for Pre-qualified Credit Card OffersTravel Credit CardsCash Back Credit CardsNo Annual Fee Credit CardsCredit Intel – Financial Education CenterBusiness Credit CardsView All Business Credit CardsMost Popular Business Credit CardsTravel Business Credit CardsNo Annual Fee Business Credit CardsFlexible Payment Business Credit CardsCorporate ProgramsView All Corporate ProgramsCorporate Green CardCorporate Platinum CardCorporate Purchasing CardPersonal Card Annual CreditPrepaid CardsPrepaid Debit CardsGift CardsView All Prepaid & Gift CardsUnited StatesChange CountryBankingBankingPersonal CheckingPersonal CheckingPersonal Checking HelpPersonal SavingsView All Savings ProductsHigh Yield Savings (HYSA)Certificates of Deposit (CD)Individual Retirement Account (IRA)Savings Help & SupportLog In To Your Savings AccountPersonal LoansPersonal LoansPersonal Loans HelpBusiness BankingBusiness CheckingKabbage Business CheckingBusiness Line of CreditUnited StatesChange CountryTravelTravelPersonal TravelBook a TripBook Fine Hotels & Resorts®Book The Hotel CollectionBook International Airline ProgramHow to Pay with PointsManage My TripsTravel InspirationGet InspiredExplore Destination ExperiencesFind a Travel InsiderWhy American Express TravelTravel ChecklistBusiness TravelCorporate Travel SolutionsMeetings and EventsForeign Exchange ServicesOther Travel ServicesTravel InsuranceCOVID-19 Travel Insurance FAQCOVID-19 Information HubTravelers ChequesFind a Travel Service OfficeGlobal Assist HotlineUnited StatesChange CountryRewardsRewardsMembership RewardsMembership Rewards® HomeUse PointsPoints SummaryCard Rewards and BenefitsExplore Your Cards Rewards ProgramBy Invitation Only ® EventsEntertainment and EventsRefer a FriendAmex OffersCash BackCash Back Rewards HomeUnited StatesChange CountryBusinessBusinessBusiness SolutionsBusiness Solutions HomeView All Business Credit CardsView All Corporate ProgramsBusiness Class: Trends & InsightsChecking & Payment ProductsBusiness CheckingKabbage Business CheckingAmerican Express GovPaymentFX International PaymentsView All Payment SolutionsFunding ProductsBusiness Line of CreditMerchant ServicesMerchant HomeAccept the CardMerchant Payment SolutionsGet SupportUnited StatesChange CountrySearchHelpLog InMy AccountCard AccountsCreate Your Online AccountAccount HomeConfirm Your CardStatements & ActivityAccount ServicesCard BenefitsBusiness AccountsSmall BusinessMerchant HomeAmerican Express @WorkOther AccountsSavings AccountsMembership Rewards® Point SummaryBlueBird Alternative to BankingInternational Payments for BusinessesCredit Tools and SupportFree Credit Score & ReportSet Your Credit Score GoalsCreditSecure®Forgot User ID or Password?Security CenterDownload the Amex Mobile AppCardsPersonal CardsView All Credit CardsCheck for Pre-qualified Credit Card OffersTravel Credit CardsCash Back Credit CardsNo Annual Fee Credit CardsCredit Intel – Financial Education CenterBusiness Credit CardsView All Business Credit CardsMost Popular Business Credit CardsTravel Business Credit CardsNo Annual Fee Business Credit CardsFlexible Payment Business Credit CardsCorporate ProgramsView All Corporate ProgramsCorporate Green CardCorporate Platinum CardCorporate Purchasing CardPersonal Card Annual CreditPrepaid CardsPrepaid Debit CardsGift CardsView All Prepaid & Gift CardsBankingPersonal CheckingPersonal CheckingPersonal Checking HelpPersonal SavingsView All Savings ProductsHigh Yield Savings (HYSA)Certificates of Deposit (CD)Individual Retirement Account (IRA)Savings Help & SupportLog In To Your Savings AccountPersonal LoansPersonal LoansPersonal Loans HelpBusiness BankingBusiness CheckingKabbage Business CheckingBusiness Line of CreditTravelPersonal TravelBook a TripBook Fine Hotels & Resorts®Book The Hotel CollectionBook International Airline ProgramHow to Pay with PointsManage My TripsTravel InspirationGet InspiredExplore Destination ExperiencesFind a Travel InsiderWhy American Express TravelTravel ChecklistBusiness TravelCorporate Travel SolutionsMeetings and EventsForeign Exchange ServicesOther Travel ServicesTravel InsuranceCOVID-19 Travel Insurance FAQCOVID-19 Information HubTravelers ChequesFind a Travel Service OfficeGlobal Assist HotlineRewardsMembership RewardsMembership Rewards® HomeUse PointsPoints SummaryCard Rewards and BenefitsExplore Your Cards Rewards ProgramBy Invitation Only ® EventsEntertainment and EventsRefer a FriendAmex OffersCash BackCash Back Rewards HomeBusinessBusiness SolutionsBusiness Solutions HomeView All Business Credit CardsView All Corporate ProgramsBusiness Class: Trends & InsightsChecking & Payment ProductsBusiness CheckingKabbage Business CheckingAmerican Express GovPaymentFX International PaymentsView All Payment SolutionsFunding ProductsBusiness Line of CreditMerchant ServicesMerchant HomeAccept the CardMerchant Payment SolutionsGet SupportHelpUnited StatesChange Country My AccountCard AccountsCreate Your Online AccountAccount HomeConfirm Your CardStatements & ActivityAccount ServicesCard BenefitsBusiness AccountsSmall BusinessMerchant HomeAmerican Express @WorkOther AccountsSavings AccountsMembership Rewards® Point SummaryBlueBird Alternative to BankingInternational Payments for BusinessesCredit Tools and SupportFree Credit Score & ReportSet Your Credit Score GoalsCreditSecure®Forgot User ID or Password?Security CenterDownload the Amex Mobile App CardsPersonal CardsView All Credit CardsCheck for Pre-qualified Credit Card OffersTravel Credit CardsCash Back Credit CardsNo Annual Fee Credit CardsCredit Intel – Financial Education CenterBusiness Credit CardsView All Business Credit CardsMost Popular Business Credit CardsTravel Business Credit CardsNo Annual Fee Business Credit CardsFlexible Payment Business Credit CardsCorporate ProgramsView All Corporate ProgramsCorporate Green CardCorporate Platinum CardCorporate Purchasing CardPersonal Card Annual CreditPrepaid CardsPrepaid Debit CardsGift CardsView All Prepaid & Gift Cards BankingPersonal CheckingPersonal CheckingPersonal Checking HelpPersonal SavingsView All Savings ProductsHigh Yield Savings (HYSA)Certificates of Deposit (CD)Individual Retirement Account (IRA)Savings Help & SupportLog In To Your Savings AccountPersonal LoansPersonal LoansPersonal Loans HelpBusiness BankingBusiness CheckingKabbage Business CheckingBusiness Line of Credit TravelPersonal TravelBook a TripBook Fine Hotels & Resorts®Book The Hotel CollectionBook International Airline ProgramHow to Pay with PointsManage My TripsTravel InspirationGet InspiredExplore Destination ExperiencesFind a Travel InsiderWhy American Express TravelTravel ChecklistBusiness TravelCorporate Travel SolutionsMeetings and EventsForeign Exchange ServicesOther Travel ServicesTravel InsuranceCOVID-19 Travel Insurance FAQCOVID-19 Information HubTravelers ChequesFind a Travel Service OfficeGlobal Assist Hotline RewardsMembership RewardsMembership Rewards® HomeUse PointsPoints SummaryCard Rewards and BenefitsExplore Your Cards Rewards ProgramBy Invitation Only ® EventsEntertainment and EventsRefer a FriendAmex OffersCash BackCash Back Rewards Home BusinessBusiness SolutionsBusiness Solutions HomeView All Business Credit CardsView All Corporate ProgramsBusiness Class: Trends & InsightsChecking & Payment ProductsBusiness CheckingKabbage Business CheckingAmerican Express GovPaymentFX International PaymentsView All Payment SolutionsFunding ProductsBusiness Line of CreditMerchant ServicesMerchant HomeAccept the CardMerchant Payment SolutionsGet SupportUnited StatesChange CountrySkip to contentView All Business CardsCompare CardsCorporate Card ProgramsFor StartupsFor Large CompaniesInternational PaymentsEmployee SpendingVendor PaymentsAutomated PaymentsView All Payment SolutionsBusiness ClassInsights and Inspiration to Help Grow Your BusinessManaging MoneyCash FlowFinancingTaxesGetting CustomersMarketing & SalesCustomer RelationsDigital ToolsSocial Media StrategyBuilding Your TeamHiring & HRCompany CultureLeadershipProductivityPlanning for GrowthStrategyGrowth OpportunitiesResearchOperationsTrends and InsightsGetting CustomersMarketing & SalesEmail MarketingOctober 07, 2013Mike MichalowiczAuthor, Profit FirstSummaryIf your email inbox is flooded with junk mail, you have more options than just hitting the delete key. Plug the holes in your security system with these 7 tips.Seriously, who doesn’t get more junk email than they ever imagined was possible? 
While we might occasionally receive useful offers from companies we’ve done business with, most of the promotional emails we receive simply clutter our inboxes, making it more difficult to sift out the important messages that need our attention. In addition, some of those emails offering cheap Viagra are far more than simple distractions; they may contain viruses that will spread to the folks in your address book, disrupt your productivity and even damage files on your computer or smartphone. 
Whether you simply want to reduce the clutter in your email inbox or you’re concerned about the security of your information and hardware, here are some practical tips to reduce the spam you receive:

Gmail actively works on your behalf to reduce the unwanted email that appears in your inbox by identifying prolific producers of spam and sending messages from those producers directly to your spam folder. Google recently added a “Promotions” folder to Gmail that filters messages that are clearly advertisements—but may actually be offers you want to see—and sorts them into this folder to allow you easy access to these offers while keeping them out of your inbox. Gmail also offers businesses the ability to use the Gmail service with the business's own domain name, so Gmail’s effective spam filters are available for both business and personal accounts.

Well, they work for reputable companies, anyway. Here's a helpful tip: When you follow the unsubscribe link, make sure you unsubscribe from all the emails you wish to block. It’s not uncommon for folks to click on the link and then have to take an additional step or two to actually fully unsubscribe.

Blacklists permanently block emails from selected senders or servers. Some email programs use blacklists already, but you can find lists (like the DNS Blacklist) that will help you identify additional domains that are known to generate spam. Once you blacklist a domain, server or sender, those senders simply can’t contact you.

Seriously, I’m shocked at how few people actually use software that’s designed to specifically solve the problem that so many of us complain about. For less than $30, you can get the highest rated spam filters like SPAMfighter Pro and MailWasher Pro. These programs are designed to offer both flexibility and comprehensive protection.

If you have Gmail and spend the few seconds that it takes to report a spam message, Gmail will work to address the problem behind the scenes. Consider it community service—you’re spending a little bit of time to make the world a better place.

These five tips will resolve the vast majority of issues that the average user will encounter, but there are times when that’s not good enough and you still find yourself inundated with spam that inhibits your productivity. In that case, here are two final tips to use when every other action has failed. These measures should only be taken as last resorts, because they’re likely to have some problematic side effects.

If you’re plagued by spam that’s preventing you from efficiently accessing the messages that you really need, then you can create your own spam filters. You can create a key list of addresses and send every message that doesn’t come from one of those addresses to your spam folder. The drawback here is that you’re eventually going to miss messages you may actually want or need. The solution is to regularly look through your spam folder and make sure there aren’t any messages that need your attention. It’s also important to keep that key address list updated so new contacts get sent to your regular email inbox.

This measure is another drastic one, but sometimes it’s the only way to absolutely ensure that your email address is secure and won't be flooded with spam. I recommend this measure for folks whose email has been repeatedly hacked or is hopelessly inundated with junk mail. You’ll want to notify your regular correspondents of the change and ensure that any support staff has your updated contact information. You want to be accessible, but only to the right folks.
As technology develops, we’ve transitioned from telemarketers who always seemed to call at dinnertime to emails that offer free cruises to the Bahamas or herbal male enhancement products. And while spam is slightly less intrusive than a ringing home phone, it’s still no less a problem. The bright side is that with just a little effort, we can clean house and eliminate nearly all the unwanted email that clogs our inbox.
Read more articles on technology.
Photo: Getty ImagesWant to Dig Deeper?About American ExpressInvestor RelationsCareersSite MapContact UsAmex Mobile AppCredit CardsBusiness Credit CardsCorporate ProgramsPrepaid CardsSavings Accounts & CDsGift CardsMembership RewardsFree Credit Score & ReportCreditSecureBluebirdAccept Amex CardsRefer A FriendCredit Intel – Financial Education CenterSupplier DiversityCredit 101Money Management 101AboutAboutAbout American ExpressInvestor RelationsCareersSite MapContact UsAmex Mobile AppProducts & ServicesProducts & ServicesCredit CardsBusiness Credit CardsCorporate ProgramsPrepaid CardsSavings Accounts & CDsGift CardsLinks You May LikeLinks You May LikeMembership RewardsFree Credit Score & ReportCreditSecureBluebirdAccept Amex CardsRefer A FriendAdditional InformationAdditional InformationCredit Intel – Financial Education CenterSupplier DiversityCredit 101Money Management 101United StatesChange CountryTerms of ServicePrivacy CenterAdChoicesSecurity CenterCard AgreementsServicemember Benefits All users of our online services are subject to our Privacy Statement and agree to be bound by the Terms of Service. Please review.  © 2022 American Express. All rights reserved


LoadingÃ—Sorry to interruptCSS ErrorRefresh


If your Inbox is getting cluttered with spam and junk mail, use these helpful tips to help get your Inbox back under control. While most spam should be caught by our filters, occasionally some can slip through. If that does happen it's important to mark the email as spam. It lets our system learn that messages from a specific sender are not good and helps us make Yahoo Mail even better at recognizing future spam emails.


Spam is irrelevant, inappropriate, or malicious email. Our filters try to keep spam out of your Inbox, but they don't catch everything. Flag an email as spam to help train the filter.
Tap an email to open it or select multiple emails.Tap the More icon Tap Mark as spam .



When you enter your email address on someone's website, you may unknowingly subscribe to their mailing list. You can often unsubscribe from their mailings within the email.
Tap an email to open it.Tap the More icon  (iOS) or  (Android).Tap Unsubscribe.
If there's no unsubscribe option, flag the message as spam or try the subscriptions tab.
From your inbox view, tap the More icon  (iOS) or  (Android).Tap Subscriptions.Under the mailing list you want to unsubscribe from, tap Unsubscribe.


TwitterFacebookPinterestLinkedInEmail


Dig Deeper



Lifestyle 


Additional Resources



37 Best Ways to Make Money from Home (Legitimate) 



30 Best New Bank Account Promotions & Offers - May 2022 



14 Best Cash-Back Credit Cards - May 2022 



15 Best New Brokerage Account Promotions & Bonus Offers – May 2022 



8 Best Stocks to Buy Right Now (May 2022) - Investment Ideas 



10 Best Stock Picking Services of May 2022 








You scroll through your e-mail inbox in disgust. Once again, it’s full of spam. Lately, it seems, you’re getting so many of these fake e-mail messages that you can barely find the few real ones.
Unwanted commercial email, messages, and robocalls – better known as spam – is a nuisance at best. At worst, it’s a way to scam you out of your hard-earned cash. But it’s so common these days that we often feel like there’s nothing we can do about it. We know there are ways to stop junk mail, but spam seems like it’s a fact of life.
However, there are things you can do. You probably can’t stop every single spam message from reaching your inbox, but you can cut way down on the amount you get. And better still, you can do it without paying a cent.

Spam is more than an annoyance. It can cost you money in many different ways:Motley Fool Stock Advisor recommendations have an average return of 618%. For $79 (or just $1.52 per week), join more than 1 million members and don't miss their upcoming stock picks. 30 day money-back guarantee. Sign Up Now
Sales Pitches: The whole point of spam is to sell you stuff – usually, stuff you don’t need or want. But occasionally, a message might slip through that looks like such a good deal that you decide to snap it up. For instance, a message might offer a “genuine diamond necklace” for $10, not mentioning that the diamond is the size of a grain of sand. Respond to these messages, and you’re likely to end up wasting money on subpar products and services.E-Mail Scams: Some spam offers aren’t just bad deals – they’re completely bogus. Many spam messages are e-mail scams designed to con you out of your money. Their tricks range from telling you you’ve won a foreign lottery to posing as a friend or family member in need of money.Identity Theft: Sometimes, it’s not your cash spammers are after, but your personal information. Thieves can use your account numbers, or your Social Security Number, to steal your identity. In some cases, they pose as you and help themselves to money out of your account. In other cases, they take out new accounts in your name and pass the bills on to you.Malware: Some criminals use spam to smuggle harmful code, known as malware, onto your computer. Types of malware include viruses, worms, spyware, and adware. Once cybercriminals have their malware in place, they can use it to steal money or personal information. They can also take over your computer and use it to send more spam.Wasted Time: Spam can cost you money even if you don’t click on it. You still have to spend time deleting it, and as the old saying goes, time is money. Every minute you spend sifting spam out of your e-mail inbox is one minute less you have to spend doing something productive.Missed Messages: When your e-mail inbox is clogged with spam, it’s easy for real messages to get buried. If you overlook a message from work because you didn’t spot it among all the spam, you could miss an important meeting or fail to meet a deadline. That could put your job in danger.

There are all kinds of software programs out there that can filter out spam before it reaches your e-mail inbox. Some of them can also block viruses and other malware before they infect your computer. If you’re overwhelmed with spam, spending $25 or $30 on one of these programs could be a good investment.
However, there are also ways to control spam for free. It’s worth giving them a try before you go digging into your wallet. You might find that it only takes a bit of work on your part to keep your inbox mostly spam-free.

The faster you identify a message as spam, the sooner you can delete it and get it out of your life. In many cases, you can tell a message is spam before you even open it. Here are a few clues to watch out for:
Unknown Sender. You can often tell real messages from fake ones by looking at the sender’s name. However, this method isn’t foolproof. Some spam messages are “spoofed,” which means their headers are changed to hide the sender’s identity. For instance, some spam e-mails appear to come from big companies, such as Amazon or Citibank. Sometimes spammers even hack into your address book and send you fake messages that look like they’re from your friends. Even if a message appears to come from someone you know, that doesn’t prove it’s real. However, if it’s from someone you definitely don’t know, that’s a good sign it’s fake.Unfamiliar Address. Along with the sender’s name, check the e-mail address. If it has a lot of numbers in it, that’s often a sign that it’s a fake e-mail address created for spam purposes. The same goes for addresses with an unfamiliar domain (the part of the address that comes after the @ symbol). And finally, you can check to see if the e-mail address appears to match the name. For instance, if a message says it’s from “Citibank,” but the e-mail address isn’t some version of “citibank.com” or “citi.com,” you can be pretty sure it’s a phony.Suspicious Subject Matter. In spam e-mails, the same subjects come up repeatedly. Most of them involve money in one form or another: sales, investment opportunities, loan offers, or requests for cash. Other popular topics include sex and dating, new health treatments, “free gifts,” and information about packages that you don’t remember ordering.Lots of Typos. A message with a few typos in it could be from a friend who types too fast. But if nearly every word is misspelled, that’s a red flag. Spammers often spell words wrong on purpose in an attempt to foil spam filters. For instance, they know that filters are likely to pick up on the name “Viagra,” so they spell it as “Vigara” instead. Another common trick is to insert numbers in place of letters, as in “V1agra.”Images Instead of Text. Another way spammers evade spam filters is by using images in place of text. Often, one large image takes up most of the body of the message. It usually has large, eye-catching print inside it.Requests for Personal Data. E-mail scammers often pose as someone else – either a business or a friend – to get information out of you. They’ll try to lure you into handing over your username, password, bank account numbers, credit card numbers, or Social Security Number. All this info can be used to steal your identity. Anytime a message asks you to provide this kind of information – either by e-mail or by logging into a website – it should raise a red flag.Fake Links. One of the most popular e-mail scams is “phishing.” You get a message that appears to come from a business, such as PayPal. The message tells you that you need to log in to your account and gives you a link to click. However, this link takes you to a fake site that looks like the real thing. Once you enter your username and password there, the spammers have access to your account. To spot fake links in an e-mail, hover your cursor over the link to see what the URL is. If the link says it’s for the PayPal site, but the domain in the URL isn’t “paypal.com,” it’s almost surely a fake. Be especially wary if the address is a set of numbers, rather than a recognizable name.Unidentified Attachments. The easiest way for hackers to get malware onto your computer is to get you to install it yourself. They send you an e-mail attachment, and when you open it, it infects your computer. Anytime you get a message with an attachment that you weren’t expecting, you should be suspicious. Even if the message seems to come from someone you know, it could be a virus that’s sending it. To be sure, send a response asking your friend whether this message really came from them.


Spam advertisers do everything they can to tempt you into replying. However, that’s a good way to end up with a lot more spam in the future. Responding lets spammers know there’s a real person at the end of your e-mail address, so they’ll pester you more. They’ll even sell your e-mail address to other spammers to put on their mailing lists.
It’s also a bad idea to click the “Unsubscribe” link at the bottom of a spam message. This won’t take you off the spammer’s mailing list. Instead, it confirms that your e-mail address is valid, exposing you to more spam. It’s best not to click on any link in a spam message, or open any attachment. Doing this can expose your computer to malware. If you even remotely suspect that a message might be spam, don’t click.

Spammers can get your e-mail address in all kinds of ways. One common way is to use “robots.” These are scripts that search websites for anything formatted like an e-mail address, with an @ symbol in the middle.
They can also trick you into handing over your e-mail address yourself. People will often enter their address without thinking in order to sign up for some kind of free offer, like a prize draw or a video site. They can even get your address from an unsuspecting friend who sends you a free e-greeting card. Your friend types in your address to send the card and a spammer collects it.
The bottom line is, the more people there are who have your e-mail address, the more spam you’re going to get. So, it’s best to avoid giving it out unless you absolutely have to. Here are a few ways to keep your address private:
Check Privacy Policies. When you sign up for a new service, read the privacy policy. In particular, check the part that says how the service uses your personal information, such as your e-mail address. If the policy says the site is allowed to use your e-mail for marketing purposes – or worse, sell or trade it to other sites – see if there’s a way to opt out. Sometimes you can do this by sending the company an e-mail that says, “Opt out” or “Unsubscribe.” If there’s no way to opt out, think twice about signing up at all.Uncheck the Box. Sometimes, when you first sign on to a website, there’s a little pre-checked box at the bottom of the page. Next to it is a line in fine print that says something like, “Yes, send me e-mail updates from this site and its partners.” Keep an eye out for this box, and uncheck it before you click to sign up.Don’t Publish It Online. Avoid putting your e-mail address online if you don’t have to. Of course, sometimes there’s no way to avoid this. For instance, you have to put your work e-mail on a work-related website, because you want clients to be able to reach you. But you can at least disguise the address to make it harder for robots to harvest. For instance, you can spell out the address with extra spaces, as in “j o h n s m i t h @ m a i l e r . c o m.” Or you can replace the “@” and “.” characters with words, as in “johnsmith at mailer dot com.” Humans can still figure out how to reach you, but robots won’t spot the address as easily.Use a Separate Address. If you have to put your address online, consider getting a separate e-mail address for that purpose. Use one address for all your personal e-mail and a separate one for shopping, newsletters, chat rooms, coupon sites, and so on. The inbox of this second account is likely to fill with spam quickly, but you don’t have to look at it.Use a “Disposable” Address. Another way to keep your address hidden from robots is to use a service that hides your e-mail. Free services like Blur, Spamex, and spamgourmet create a “disposable” e-mail address that you can give out to companies in place of your real address. Messages sent to this address get forwarded to your real e-mail – but only as long as you want them to. If you start getting spam through the disposable address, you can simply shut it off. This doesn’t interfere in any way with mail to your regular address.

Most e-mail accounts come with some sort of spam filter. These tools screen out messages that look like spam and dump them into a bulk e-mail folder, instead of your inbox. However, these filters aren’t perfect. They don’t catch all spam, and once in a while they screen out a legitimate message.
Fortunately, you can train your spam filter to do its job better. When a spam message makes it through to your inbox, flag it as spam. That will help your system learn to recognize that messages like this one – for instance, messages from the same sender, or with the same subject line – are spam. The more spam messages you tag, the more accurate your filter will become.
You can educate the filter about false positives too. Every day or two, go through your bulk mail folder and look for any real messages that have been dumped there. When you find one, select it and tell the computer it isn’t spam. Doing this regularly ensures that you don’t miss any real messages, and helps you train the spam filter at the same time.
The way you mark messages as spam depends on which e-mail client you’re using. For example, in the web-based Gmail system, you flag spam by clicking the “Report spam” button, which looks like a stop sign with an exclamation point inside it. To mark false positives, you click a button labeled “Not spam,” which shows up when you’re looking at messages in the spam folder. To figure out how to do it in your system, check the help files.

No matter how well you train your spam filter, some messages are going to get through. Spammers are always working on new ways to evade your filters, and e-mail providers can’t always keep up. And if you’re getting a huge volume of spam every day, even the small percentage that slips past the filter can add up to a lot of mail.
If you’re in this situation, there’s one more thing you can try as a last resort: changing your e-mail address. This is a big hassle, but if you’re swamped with spam, it gives you a chance to start over with a clean slate. Here’s how to do it:
Choose a Unique Address. Spammers don’t limit their messages to known e-mail addresses; they also send out messages to random combinations of names and domains, such as “esmith” and “jdoe” at Gmail or Yahoo, hoping to hit on a real address. When you set up your new account, it’s best to choose an unusual name that spammers won’t find this way. Throwing in numbers as well as letters, as in “e59smith7,” is one way to foil the random searches. However, it also makes your e-mail address harder for friends and family to remember. If you can, come up with something that’s both unusual and easy to remember, such as “chuckletrousers.”Let Your Contacts Know. Once you set up your new address, tell all your contacts about the change. This includes friends, family, coworkers, and legitimate businesses that need to reach you, such as your utility company.Keep Both Addresses for a While. Even if you tell everyone about your new e-mail address, it’ll take a while for the e-mails to your old account to stop. It could take your friends a while to remember to change your name in their address books. Also, they might occasionally write to you by hitting “reply” on an old message that came from your old address. To make sure you don’t miss these messages, hold on to your old e-mail address for a few months. Check it every few days, and don’t drop it until you stop seeing legitimate messages showing up in the inbox.Share It With Care. Once you’ve fully switched over to your new account, your inbox should be nearly spam free. To keep it that way, be careful about sharing your new e-mail address. Only give it out when you need to. Also, make sure to ask your friends not to give out your new address without asking you first.


Getting your personal inbox clear of spam is a good start, but it’s only half the battle. The spammers will still be out there, spreading their scams and their malware – and constantly seeking new ways into your inbox. To stop them, you have to go on the offensive. Here are a few ways to strike back at spammers, not just on your own computer, but everywhere.

When you see a spam message in your mailbox, the easiest thing to do is hit delete. But if you really want to strike back at the spammers, take an extra step first. Before hitting delete, report the spam to people who can do something to fight it. You can report spam to:
Your E-Mail Provider. Each e-mail service has its own set of tools for reporting spam. For instance, some providers have a button you can click to report a spam message. Others provide an e-mail address to forward spam to. At the top of the forwarded message, add a note explaining that you’re complaining about being spammed.The Sender’s E-mail Provider. If you can identify where the spam message came from, send a complaint to that provider as well. Most Internet service providers (ISPs) and web mail services want to stop spammers from using their systems, since it wastes their resources. Again, forward the entire spam message and state that you’re complaining about receiving spam.The FTC. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is the closest thing there is to a police force for the Internet. You can report spammers to them by forwarding the entire message to spam@uce.gov. The FTC stores these spam reports in a database, which it uses to bring cases against people who use spam to commit fraud.

If you really hate spam, it will shock you to learn that some of it might be coming from your own computer. But if your computer doesn’t have up-to-date security software, it could be.
Spammers cruise the Internet looking for poorly protected computers. When they find one, they infect it with malware that lets them control the computer remotely. They then link up thousands of these hijacked computers into a “botnet” – a network they can use to send out millions of e-mails at once. Sending their spam out through botnets keeps their real locations hidden.
According to the FTC, the majority of spam is sent through botnets. Millions of home computers are used this way without their owners knowing anything about it. If you don’t want yours to become one of them, follow these steps:
Practice Safe Computing. Keep all your software up to date, including your operating system, web browser, security software, and apps. Out-of-date systems are much easier to hack into. Also, disconnect your computer or phone from the Internet when you’re not using it. If you’re not connected, hackers can’t get in.Open Attachments With Care. Don’t open any e-mail attachment – even from someone you know – unless you know what it is or were expecting it. If someone sends you an unidentified attachment, send a message back to make sure it’s legitimate. And if you have to send an attached file to someone else, include a message explaining what it is.Be Wary of Free Software. Free software programs, such as games, browser extensions, and file-sharing programs, look like a tempting deal. However, they’re also a common way to spread malware. To protect yourself, only download free software from sites you know and trust.Alert Friends to Hacking. You can also warn your friends if their computers appear to have been roped into a botnet. If you get a spam message that looks like it came from a friend’s address, send your friend a message to let them know their account has been compromised. That way, they can purge the malware from their computers before the infection spreads further. However, don’t respond directly to the spam message. If you do, your reply might get redirected to the hacker. Instead, write a new message to your friend’s address. If that doesn’t work, call or text them instead.

It’s not always easy to tell when there’s malware on your computer. Your first warning might be a message from a friend about a “weird” e-mail from you that you don’t recall sending. You might also notice e-mail messages in your sent folder that you didn’t send. Or your computer could simply start acting sluggish or displaying repeated error messages. If you notice any of these warning signs, follow these steps:
Stop Using Sensitive Accounts. Stop using the Internet for shopping, banking, or anything else that involves sensitive information. Don’t log on to these accounts again until the problem is fixed.Run a Security Scan. First, make sure your security software is up to date. Then run a scan to look for viruses and other malware. Delete any file the program identifies as a problem.Call Tech Support. If a scan doesn’t fix the problem, try calling tech support. If your computer has a warranty that includes free tech support, you can call the manufacturer for help. If not, try calling a computer store or other company that provides technical help for a fee.Report the Malware. The FTC keeps tabs on malware infections in the USA. To report one, file a complaint through the FTC Complaint Assistant.


Your e-mail inbox is a popular target for advertisers – but it’s not the only one. They’ll also force their way into your cell phone and even your landline, if you have one. Fighting back against unwanted ads in these areas requires an entirely different set of tools and tricks.

Text message spam is like e-mail spam, only it attacks your cell phone instead of your computer. Spam texts are even more annoying than spam e-mails, because they interrupt your day and force you to look at them right away. But text message spam isn’t just an annoyance – it’s a real danger.
How Text Message Spam Hurts You
The FTC calls text message spam a “triple threat,” because it can harm you in three ways:
It Costs You Money. Many wireless carriers charge you for each text message you receive, whether you requested it or not. So, text spammers don’t just force their ads on you; they also force you to pay for them.It Slows Down Your Phone. To add insult to injury, text message spam can also slow down your cell phone’s performance. All those spam texts take up space in your phone’s memory, leaving less to deal with the messages you actually want.It Tries to Scam You. Just like spam e-mails, spam texts are often scams. They lure you in by offering free gifts, discounts, or financial products like cheap mortgages. Then they ask you to hand over personal information, such as your income or your bank account number. Spam texts can also contain fake links. Clicking on one installs malware that collects information from your phone. Spammers use both these ploys to get information about you, which they sell to marketers or, worse, identity thieves.
Sending text message spam is illegal. Companies are only allowed to text you messages if they have a relationship with you. For instance, your bank is allowed to send you a statement this way.
How to Fight Text Message Spam
For the most part, you can deal with text message spam the same way as e-mail spam. Delete the messages, and don’t reply or click any links. However, there are a few extra things you can do about text message spam:
Register Your Cell Phone. Put your cell phone on the national Do Not Call Registry. This will stop you from getting unwanted calls or texts from legitimate businesses. However, it won’t stop scammers, since they don’t care about the law.Check Your Bill. When you get your cell phone bill, check to make sure there are no unauthorized charges. If you spot any, report them to your carrier.Forward Spam Texts. If you have a cell phone plan with one of the biggest providers – AT&T, Bell, Sprint, T-Mobile, or Verizon – you can report spam texts to your carrier. Copy the message and text it to the number 7726 (SPAM). The carriers use these reports to help them filter spam texts better.File a Complaint. If you receive spam texts, you can report them to the FTC through the FTC Complaint Assistant. You can also file a complaint with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).

Have you ever picked up the phone and heard a recorded voice on the other end trying to sell you something? These annoying messages are called robocalls, and they’re illegal. Unfortunately, catching the lawbreakers isn’t easy.
What Robocalls Are
Not all prerecorded calls are illegal. Some types of messages are allowed, including:
Messages promoting a candidate for officeRequests for donations to charitiesMessages that only provide information, such as “Your flight has been canceled,” or “Your child’s school is opening late today”Calls from businesses trying to collect a debtReminders from health-care providers – for instance, about an appointment or a prescription refillCalls that come directly from a company you do business with, such as your bank or phone carrier
However, recorded sales calls are illegal, unless you’ve given permission in writing for the company to contact you. It’s also against the law to send any prerecorded call to a cell phone.
Not only are robocalls illegal, they’re usually scams. The callers offer a wide range of products and services, including credit cards, auto warranty protection, home security systems, and grants. These offers only have one thing in common: They’re all fake.
Robocalls have spiked in recent years, thanks to new technology. Autodialers make it possible for scammers to send out thousands of phone calls each minute at very little cost. They can also use new technology to “spoof” the caller ID on your phone, so you can’t tell where they’re calling from. They can disguise their number to look like the call is coming from your bank, another business, or even a private phone.

How to Fight Robocalls
Unfortunately, putting your phone on the Do Not Call Registry won’t stop robocalls. The people who send out these messages are criminals, so breaking one more law doesn’t bother them. However, there are other ways to fight these illegal calls:
Hang Up. As soon as you realize you’re hearing a robocall, hang up the phone. Don’t press 1 to speak to an operator or some other number to “be removed from our call list.” Doing this will have the opposite effect: It will confirm that your phone number works. The caller will sell it to other companies, and you’ll get more robocalls in future.Try Nomorobo. Nomorobo is like a spam filter for your phone. When a robocall comes through, Nomorobo answers it immediately, so it can’t get through to you. Your phone will ring once and then stop. This service can’t block out all robocalls, but it catches most of them. Nomorobo is free for landline phones, but it only works with VOIP carriers, such as Verizon FiOS and AT&T U-verse. There’s also a version for iPhones that costs $1.99 per month. (An Android version is coming soon.) You can sign up in just a few minutes through the Nomorobo website.In Canada, Use Telemarketing Guard. Landline customers in Canada can screen robocalls with a free service called Primus Telemarketing Guard. This service works similarly to Nomorobo, but it gives you more options for dealing with calls. Unfortunately, there is no similar service available for landline phone customers in the U.S.Use Call-Blocking Apps. If you use a smartphone, there are apps available to block unwanted calls. These apps can create blacklists – lists of numbers that are blocked from calling your phone. They can also create whitelists – lists of numbers that are allowed to call your phone – and block out all others. For instance, they can let you block calls from anyone who isn’t in your personal contact list. Some mobile apps also create their own blacklist databases, blocking out calls from numbers that have received a lot of complaints from consumers. Popular call-blocking apps include Truecaller (free for Android, iOS, and Windows Phone) and Hiya (free for Android and iOS).Install a Call-Blocking Device. To block robocalls on your landline phone, you can install a call-blocking device. Like call-blocking apps, these devices work by creating blacklists and whitelists. Call-blocking devices range in price from around $30 to over $150. You’ll need to shop carefully to make sure the one you pick will work with both your home phone and your phone service.Report Robocalls. Just like e-mail and text message spam, robocalls can be reported to the FTC. You can use the online Complaint Assistant or call 1-888-382-1222. The FTC uses this information to help build better call blacklists.Put Pressure on Phone Carriers. In 2015, the FCC passed new rules giving phone companies the right to offer robocall-blocking technology to their customers. So far, however, phone carriers aren’t providing this service. You can put pressure on your carrier by calling and asking the company to provide a way to block robocalls. You can also sign a petition addressed to the major phone companies.

Even if you do everything right, you probably won’t be able to get spam out of your life completely. Spammers are clever, and they’re always coming up with new ways to get around your filters. But with a little effort, you can manage to reduce your spam load from dozens of messages a day to a few a week, or even less. And at the same time, you can reduce spam’s burden on everyone else by keeping your computer clean and free from malware.
How much spam do you get? What’s your favorite way to deal with it?








Jump toHow Spam Hurts You FinanciallyHow to Cut Down on SpamHow to Fight Back Against SpammersHow to Stop Other Unwanted MessagesFinal Word 
 









TAGS:
TwitterFacebookPinterestLinkedInEmail


 
 



 




Amy Livingston



Amy Livingston is a freelance writer who can actually answer yes to the question, "And from that you make a living?" She has written about personal finance and shopping strategies for a variety of publications, including ConsumerSearch.com, ShopSmart.com, and the Dollar Stretcher newsletter. She also maintains a personal blog, Ecofrugal Living, on ways to save money and live green at the same time. 











 











Discover More 






Lifestyle 



Technology 





 


Make Money 

Worthy Review - Auction Diamonds, Jewelry, and Luxury Watches Online 







Related topics	





See more questions 




Extra Income 


See the full answer »	



Frugal Living 


See the full answer »	



Scams 


See the full answer »	



Family & Home 


See the full answer »	



Banking 


See the full answer »


Zendesk help


Support


Using Support ticketing system


Tickets















                Ryan Winkler
              


Edited October 24, 2021 02:39










Protecting your company from spam and abuse is inevitably a task all companies are confronted with. While there is no silver bullet to stop all spam, there are some commonly used options that can help.
To ensure your account is as spam-free as possible, applying active protections to forms, emails and API calls that send to your account should be maintained. This article describes some great methods for protecting your account.
This article contains the following sections:

Using CAPTCHA on forms
Protecting your domain from email abuse, via SPF, DKIM and DMARC records
Zendesk Support-specific features
Further Reading


Using a Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart (CAPTCHA) is touted as one of the best ways to prevent incoming spam on any sort of public facing submission to your system. This presents a challenge to anyone submitting a ticket before they are able to successfully submit. In many cases, this will outright stop any attempts to abuse your system.
Support uses Cloudflare's bot detection and management software. CAPTCHA is enabled by default, including on the Sign Up page, and can't be disabled. Only traffic that Cloudflare flags as suspicious will be served CAPTCHA challenges.

Most commonly, abusive email messages come from a forged or fake address which can be accomplished easily in many programs and scripts.  Using SPF, DKIM, and DMARC in tandem will help build your domain’s reputation, and avoid having your mail end up in your customer’s spam folder. We make it easy to use on your account, as we support all three records. Here's a quick recap of all records:
An SPF record is a policy which is set up within your DNS record that allows the email receiver's email client to validate if the server is allowed to send messages on its behalf. In layman's terms, SPF acts like an allowlist for email servers, dictating what can and cannot send on your domains behalf. This can cut down significantly on forged emails. You can read more about setting up records for Zendesk in our article, Setting up SPF for Zendesk to send email on behalf of your email domain.
DKIM records are a protocol which validates a message’s cryptographic signature against a public key placed in the DNS record of sender’s domain. This helps ensure that there was no deviation within the path of the email, and shows if a message has been altered in anyway prior to the receiver getting the message. Due to this, servers tend to find any domain or email more reputable, and less likely to end up in a spam folder (or outright rejected). You can setup the DKIM records needed for Zendesk by following the article, Digitally signing your emails with DKIM or DMARC.
DMARC (Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance) is a policy which attempt to tie SPF and DKIM together, by telling servers how to handle an email if SPF and/or DKIM records aren't present within an email. It can also send email reports on failures, to help you gain insight into how your domain is being used and handling email. For more information on DMARC and how to set one up, see the overview on Dmarc.org.

While the previously-mentioned actions will help your domain in general, Zendesk Support offers a few additional tools at your disposal.

Sender Authentication is a relatively new feature which helps you control spoofed and illegitimate emails from reaching your account.  This feature looks to authenticate the senders DMARC, and sends to your suspended queue if it fails. You can find this feature on the Email admin page, at Admin > Channels > Email. For more information on the feature itself, see our support article, Authenticating incoming email using DMARC for further information.

If you're past the point of proactively protecting your account and spam has been coming through email, you can outright block incoming emails from specific addresses or entire domains. This can be an efficient way to stop spam in its tracks. See our article, Using the allowlist and blocklist to control access to Zendesk Support.
As spammers continue to get more creative and sophisticated with their methods, it is important to take advantage of all possible spam fighting tools at your disposal, as no one solution will be completely effective. With the combination of the methods listed here implemented for your business, spammers will be less likely to target your business.

If you're looking for more documentation to combat spam, check out the following:

About Help Center Spam prevention
How do I bulk delete spam tickets in Zendesk?
Understanding and managing tickets and spam











2



                  3
                





























Return to top








Date
Votes













                            Shawn
                          


April 30, 2021 19:10










Hello,We need to filter out incoming support tickets from legitimate email addresses that contain identified suspicious links. I tried using a customer Trigger on new tickets that contain the link in the Comment Text, but this isn't catching them. Can you advise how to set a Trigger that targets tickets that contain specific URLs embedded in the content?
Thanks,Shawn




1

















                            Amy Silcock
                          


April 26, 2022 13:34










Is it possible to use a regex to block certain e-mails from a domain? We're getting a lot of spam from @qq.com. We don't want to block all e-mails from qq.com but only those following a certain pattern. The pattern would be if there are only digits preceding the domain.




0




















                            Marco Malbas
                          


April 27, 2022 10:39


Zendesk Customer Care 








Hi Amy, thanks for your comment here. This would not be an option at the moment, unfortunately. I would suggest posting this as a feature request for our product team to review and possibly be in the roadmap for future improvements. Cheers! 





0









Please sign in to leave a comment.


Skip navigationUniversity of Illinois Knowledgebase University of IllinoisServices & InfoContact UsUniversity of Illinois Technology ServicesSearch term Select topicAll TopicsAccounts and Passwords  Password ManagerCommunication and Collaboration  cPanel Web Hosting  Digital Signage   Exchange  Google Apps @ Illinois  Illinois Mobile App  Illinois Wiki  Kaltura  Lync / Skype for Business  Office 365  Publish.illinois.edu (PIE)  U of I Box  ZOOMComputing Infrastructure  Amazon Web ServicesHelp and Training  Accessibility Outreach   Help Desk  OnSite Consulting  Status  Training Services (FAST 3)  Usability ConsultingKnown ErrorsNetworking  Virtual Private Networking (VPN)  WirelessPrinting and Software  WebStoreSafety and SecurityTeaching and Learning  Canvas@illinois.edu  Illinois Compass 2G  Advanced Site Map



     Check Status
     Get Help

     Email the Help Desk
     Call the Help Desk(217) 244-7000Submit a Suggestion


I would like to continue using Tech Services Spam Control but would no longer like to receive Spam Control End User daily Digests.To unsubscribe from Tech Services Spam Control's End User Digests, do the following:After you log into the Web Interface, follow these steps to stop receiving daily End User Digests:Click Profile in the bottom left navigation window.Then select Settings.To stop all digest subscriptions, uncheck both 'Send digest with new messages in my End User Digest' AND 'Send digest even when I have no messages in my End User Digest.'Click Save.Alternatively, you can also complete this action by opening a recent daily End User Digest email in your email account's inbox, sent from: 'spam-digest@uillinois.edu' and selecting 'Manage My Account.'After completing these steps, you will no longer receive Spam Control End User Digests.For general support please contact the Technology Services Help Desk.Keywords:Spam Control daily digest end user unsubscribe web interface my account   Suggest keywordsDoc ID:48999Owner:Email Relays E.Group:University of Illinois Technology ServicesCreated:2015-03-18 10:21 CDTUpdated:2021-06-25 16:19 CDTSites:University of Illinois Technology ServicesFeedback:  7    0     Comment   Suggest a new document   Subscribe to changesCopyright © 2021 | Privacy


SiteGround CDN Is Now Officially Here

11 May, 2022
Read More


Email, Messaging, & Video Calls
 >
 Email






346

346 people found this article helpful








By

Anita George








 

Anita George




 


Facebook
 

 


Twitter
 



Writer


University of Georgia

Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication


Anita George is a writer who has been covering technology since 2013. Her work has appeared in Paste Magazine and she holds both B.A. and B.S. degrees.



lifewire's editorial guidelines




Updated on September 19, 2020










Tweet







Share







Email



















Tweet







Share







Email






















Jump to a Section










Common Causes of Junk Email




Unsubscribe From Advertising and Marketing Email Lists




Block and Report Harmful Spam




Types of Harmful Spam












No matter how hard you try, you'll never avoid junk or spam emails. You can hide most spam emails in a spam folder using filters, but some unwanted emails will slip through the cracks. There's no guaranteed way to eliminate all spam from your inboxes, but here are a few ways to reduce the amount of spam you're receiving.


 

To understand how to reduce junk email, you have to consider the source of these emails, usually spammers, and the methods they use to flood you with spam emails.



One of the most common forms of spam you've probably experienced is marketing emails from legitimate retailers and other companies. While signing up for a service or account with one of these companies, you may have also signed up for their weekly newsletters/circulars/or emailed coupons. Spam caused by you providing your email address to a legitimate company may be annoying, but it's usually harmless.



However, malicious spam emails do exist. They're usually sent by spammers and not by reputable companies. There are several ways spammers can get your email address, including purchasing (illegal) lists of email addresses stolen from internet service providers.




If you can't avoid publishing your email address where spammers can grab it, you can try to mask your email address by posting it as an image instead of text or use a disposable email address service.

 

As we mentioned earlier, commercial ad spam from reputable retailers or other companies is generally harmless. If you're already receiving commercial ad spam from a reputable company and you want it to stop, here's how to unsubscribe from them.




To avoid getting more of these in the future, look out for an opt-out option for that company's marketing emails or newsletter when signing up for a website or service. It's usually a checkbox you can select to either opt-in or out of promotional emails.




Log in to your email account.





Open one of the marketing emails you'd no longer like to receive.





Scroll to the bottom of the message, and look for an unsubscribe link. Click it only if you're sure you subscribed to the list.



If you didn't subscribe to this promotional email, delete the message instead. Clicking the link won't unsubscribe you, and could let a spammer know your email address is valid and ripe for receiving spam emails. 




Some email providers, like Gmail, may have their own unsubscribe button you can select. In Gmail, it's usually located to the right of the sender's name.



 

Your email provider's in-house spam filter is the most effective defense against these more malicious junk emails when it comes to harmful spam. Sometimes, those filters need a little help because some spam emails can pass through the filters.



You can teach those filters to be more discerning by blocking their senders and making sure to mark or report junk emails as spam when you notice them trickling into your inbox.



Here's how to report such messages as spam and block specific senders, so your email provider knows to filter out those messages.





Log in to your email account.





Open the message you want to report as spam, and optionally, block the sender.





Right-click the message from your inbox or select the three dots icon within the email.




This step will vary based on your email provider. For example, in Outlook, you can right-click the email; in Gmail and Hotmail, select the three dots icon.




To mark a message as spam, select Report spam, Mark as spam, or even Mark as junk. The names for these options may vary among email providers.






To block a sender of spam (or any other person who sends unwanted emails), you select Block sender. The name may vary among email providers.





 

Harmful spam can threaten the security of your personal data and your computer's health, as they're usually used to either steal personal information from you, infect your computer with malware, or both.



The most common types of harmful spam are:



Money scams: Spam emails meant to swindle unsuspecting email users into either sending money to the spammer or sharing personal financial information in hopes of receiving a payment from the spammer.Sweepstakes winner spam: Emails that "notify" you about winning a contest you likely never entered. To "claim" your prize, you'll usually have to click a sketchy link or provide personal information.Email spoofing/phishing scams: Emails created to look like official emails from companies you trust. These emails imitate things like company logos to trick unsuspecting recipients into sending sensitive, personal information.Antivirus warning spam: Spam emails that "warn" you about malware infections and conveniently offer to scan your computer (or some other antivirus assistance) to help "fix" your computer. When users try to access the support via a sketchy link, malware infects their machines, or worse, the scammer gains access to the recipients' system.





Was this page helpful?




Thanks for letting us know!



Get the Latest Tech News Delivered Every Day




Email Address



There was an error. Please try again.



You're in! Thanks for signing up.

There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you  for signing up!





Tell us why!


DoNotPayLearnBurner PhonesWarrantyDMCAProperty TaxesPrisonersNotaryTop FeaturesLatestSign Up/Sign InLearnBurner PhonesClaim a WarrantyCopyright ProtectionReduce Property TaxesConnect With an InmateNotarize Any DocumentTop FeaturesLatestSign Up/Sign InFight Email SpamHow to Stop Spam Emails  Fight Email Spam   How to Stop Spam Emails  

For most people, getting plenty of junk mail has become part of the daily routine. The image of our inbox flooded with unwanted emails, such as advertising messages, social network notifications, or phishing emails, is likely to make you feel annoyed and unprotected.
You should never click on an unknown link, respond to an unsolicited email, or download a suspicious attachment. Even accidental opening of a spam message can make your inbox vulnerable for further intrusion. 
DoNotPay is here to help you stop spam emails for good and keep your inbox safe and clean!

Options
Block emails on computerBlock emails on smartphones
Earn money
by reporting spam emails

With DoNotPay app
✔✔✔Manually✔✔
✖



To protect yourself against unwanted emails and possibly earn some money as compensation for the hassle of receiving junk mail, follow these steps:

Log into your DoNotPay account through the web browser link
Choose the Spam Collector option
Enter your email address to connect it with DoNotPay
When you receive a next spam email, you need to forward it to spam@donotpay.com

DoNotPay will automatically unsubscribe you from the mailing list. The DoNotPay unsubscribe service doesn't require account details, so the service recognizes only those emails you want to get rid of.

There is even a way to take revenge against email spammers. Here is how it works:

Forward a spam message to spam@donotpay.com
DoNotPay checks if there is a class-action lawsuit against the sender
If there is one, you'll see a flag in the Spam Collector tab of your DoNotPay dashboard 
Select Claim cash compensation to automatically submit to the settlement

Spam emails are unlawful if you didn’t agree to receive them, or there’s no unsubscribe option available. If there is a class action lawsuit active against the sender, DoNotPay will notify you. You can join the lawsuit and get compensation if the class action is won.


We'll show you how to stop emails on your computer with the top three service providers — Gmail, Yahoo, and Outlook. 

If you are a Gmail user who wants to protect yourself from junk emails, you can do it on your own following these steps:

Go to your Inbox
Open the email you want to block
Click on the drop-down menu in the upper-right corner of the email by three vertically stacked dots
Select Block the sender’s name

Messages sent by the address will go to your spam folder in the future.

To block spam emails in Outlook:

Select the messages or senders you want to block
From the top toolbar, choose Junk 
Select  Block (or Spam > Block)
Hit OK

The messages you selected will be deleted. Outlook will add the sender's email address to the blocked senders list, so all future messages will be blocked from your mailbox.

If you use Yahoo for email communication, here is how to stop spam emails:

In your Yahoo account, select Settings
Click Blocked Addresses
In the Add an address field, click on Block 
Enter an email address you want to block
Click Block 


Stopping an email on your Android or iOS works the same, but the interface looks slightly different. The steps are the following:

Open the email from the sender you want to block
Open a drop-down menu in the upper-right corner of the message by clicking three vertically stacked dots. Make sure it's not the corner of the app but the email
Click on Block sender’s name

You won't receive messages from the email address from now on.

Dos
Don’ts
Create a separate email address when registering for online shopping
Use a personal or business email address for online purchases and sign-ups

Make sure an attachment is safe before you download it
Publish your email address on the web unless it’s necessaryHide your email address
Open messages that you suspect may be spam



Statistics provided by EcoCycle say one could spend eight months of their life handling unwanted mail. An average American daily gets tons of credit card offers, prepaid envelopes, sales letters, clothes and furniture catalogs, brochures, leaflets, and other unwanted mailings. Junk mail not only wastes our time and space but can also be irritating for various reasons:

Sorting, reading, and recycling take time away from your free time
The abundance of paper makes a mess in your home or office
Exposing your contact details represents a huge intrusion into your personal information 
Last but not least, your carbon footprint is getting bigger as you keep receiving the mail you actually don’t need

DoNotPay is happy to introduce you to our new feature, DoNotMail. Sign up for the service, and we can guarantee you'll stop receiving spam mail and therefore gain full control over your mailbox. You only need to take a snapshot of the unwanted mail and send it to us. Not only will you be permanently unsubscribed from the unsolicited paper mail, but you might additionally get compensation if you join the lawsuit against the sender, and the court finds their mailing practices illegal.


DoNotPay is more than a spam email blocker. You can access the app in any web browser to cut red tape, avoid speeding tickets, or cancel that Planet Fitness membership you don’t use. Our services save you time and energy for more exciting aspects of life. 
DoNotPay is great if you need help:

Dealing with your credit cards issues
Stopping your subscriptions or memberships
Scheduling a DMV appointment fast and easy
Disputing parking ticket fines
Getting compensation for delayed or canceled flight
Helping you delay paying bills you cannot pay when they’re due  
Fighting traffic tickets
Fighting stalking and harassment
Exploring opportunities for refunds from companies
Getting you through the phone queue when calling customer service departments
Getting rid of speeding tickets
Dealing with robocalls
Preparing paperwork for court if there is a possibility of small claims

Let DoNotPay solve this problem for me.We have helped over 300,000 people with their problems. Sit back and relax while we do the work.Top PostsHow To Block Emails on Hotmail the Easy WayWhy You Are Suddenly Getting a Lot of Spam EmailsHow to Stop Bitcoin Spam EmailWhy Am I Getting Spam Emails From Dating Sites?How Do I Permanently Block an Email AddressNever Read Another Unwanted EmailCan I Sue for Spam Email and How?How To Stop GoDaddy Email SpamHow To Add Email to Spam List and Earn in the ProcessA Guide to Canada Email Spam LawPayPal Phishing Email Report in a Few Easy StepsHow To Unsubscribe From Match.comReport Walmart Phishing Email QuicklyHow To Deal With the Unsubscribe Email ScamsHow Do You Stop Emails Going to Junk MailHow to Check if an Email Has Been Delivered in GmailRecent PostsGet the Best Deal Through the ASOS Price Adjustment PolicyA Guide to the Anthropologie Price Adjustment PolicyAthleta Price Adjustment Policy: All You Need to KnowDoes Walgreens Price Match?How to Find the Best AAFES Price Matching DealsProtect Your Money Protect Your Money + -  Burner Phones   Airline Flight Compensation Hacks   Virtual Credit Cards   Get Free Trials & Don't Get Charged   Insurance Claims   Warranty Claims Fight Spam Fight Spam + -  Fight Email Spam   Fight Text Spam   Robocall Compensation About About + -  Terms of Service   Press   Contact Customer Service Issue Customer Service Issue + -  Jump the Phone Queue for Any Company   Late Delivery Refunds   Item Return Request   Cancel Any Service or Subscription   Chargebacks and Refunds   Appeal Banned Account Find Hidden Money Find Hidden Money + -  Gift Card Cash Back   Free Raffle Tickets   Find Unclaimed Money   Help With Bills   Reducing Property Taxes   College Fee Waivers   Discover and Apply for Scholarships   Financial Aid Appeal Letters Legal Tools Legal Tools + -  Appeal Parking Tickets in Any City   Copyright Protection   Create a Power of Attorney   Sue Anyone in Small Claims Court   Standardized Legal Documents   Neighbor Complaints   Stalking and Harassment   Child Travel Consent Form   Fight Workplace Discrimination   HR Complaints   Defamation Demand Letters   File a Complaint   Divorce Settlement Agreement Beat Bureaucracy Beat Bureaucracy + -  Connect With an Inmate   Mailing as a Service   Online Fax   Schedule Appointments With the DMV   Government Tests   Notarize Documents   Compensation for Victims of Crime   FOIA   Contact Embassies and Consulates   Contact Government Representatives   Create Passport Photos   Notice of Intent To Homeschool   Sex Offender Search   Tourist Visas © 2022 DoNotPay All rights reserved.


Skip to content
Skip to search
Skip to footer







Cisco.com Worldwide



















Explore Cisco










How to Buy












For Partners

Partners Home
New Partner Program
Support
Tools




Already a Partner?
Log in




Find a Cisco Partner


Meet our Partners


Become a Cisco Partner









Have an account?




  Personalized content
            



  Your products and support
            

Log in
Don't have an account? Sign up

Forgot your password?
About Cisco accounts



Need an account?
Create an account

Help














Products and Services


Solutions


Support


Learn
























Products & Services


Security


Email Security




















Spam email is unsolicited and unwanted junk email sent out in bulk to an indiscriminate recipient list. Typically, spam is sent for commercial purposes. It can be sent in massive volume by botnets, networks of infected computers.


Watch video (3:41)Cisco Secure Email































Get a call from Sales




Product / Technical Support




Training & Certification




                            
                            1-800-553-6387
                            
                        

US/CAN | 5am-5pm PT























Often, spam email is sent for commercial purposes. While some people view it as unethical, many businesses still use spam. The cost per email is incredibly low, and businesses can send out mass quantities consistently. Spam email can also be a malicious attempt to gain access to your computer.

Spam email can be difficult to stop, as it can be sent from botnets. Botnets are a network of previously infected computers. As a result, the original spammer can be difficult to trace and stop.
If you receive a message that appears to be spam--for example, if you don’t recognize the sender--mark the message as spam in your email application. Don't click any links or attached files, including opt-out or unsubscribe links. Spammers sometimes include these links to confirm that your email address is legitimate, or the links may trigger malicious webpages or downloads.

Spam email can be dangerous. It can include malicious links that can infect your computer with malware (see What is malware?). Do not click links in spam. Dangerous spam emails often sound urgent, so you feel the need to act. Keep reading to learn about some of the basic spam types.

































Whether an email message is spam or a legitimate advertisement, in the United States it's subject to the guidelines in the CAN-SPAM act.
When businesses capture your email address, they often subscribe you to their newsletter by default, as a low-cost way to sell their products. Whenever you fill out an online form, look for a checkbox to opt into or out of marketing email. While these emails can be pesky, most are harmless, and by law they must have a visible opt-out or unsubscribe option.
If you unsubscribe and continue to receive spam, update your email settings to filter messages from the sender's address out of your inbox.


















Ironically, antivirus warnings are a common spam tactic. These emails warn you about a computer virus infection and offer a solution--often an antivirus scan--to fix the alleged cyber threat. But taking the bait and clicking the link can grant the hacker access to your system or may download a malicious file.
If you suspect that your computer is infected, do not click a random email link. Instead, pursue legitimate cybersecurity software solutions to protect your endpoints.


















Why are phishing email scams often effective? Because the spam emails masterfully mimic legitimate corporate messages to get you to act. In a spoofing attack a spammer picks a company brand victims will trust, such as a bank or an employer, then uses the company's exact formatting and logos.
Before you reply or click anything, check the From line to make sure that the sender's email address (not just the alias) is legitimate. When in doubt, contact the company to verify whether the email is real.


















Spammers often send emails claiming that you have won a sweepstakes or a prize. They urge you to respond quickly to collect your prize, and may ask you to click a link or submit some personal information. If you don't recognize the competition, or if the email address seems dubious, don't click any links or reply with any personal details.


















Unfortunately, spammers prey on people's goodwill. A common money scam begins with emails asking for help in dire circumstances. The spammer fabricates a story about needing funds for a family emergency or a tragic life event. Some scams, like the Nigerian prince scheme, promise to give you money if you just send your bank account information or pay a small processing fee. Always be cautious about providing personal information or sending money.





























Secure Endpoint


Secure Malware Analytics


Secure Email


Secure Firewalls


Cloud Security

















Free trials for Security 



















What is Advanced Malware Protection?


What Is Email Encryption?


What is Malware?


What Is Phishing?


What Is Cybersecurity?


What Is Information Security?


The Difference Between Spam and Phishing


What Is DMARC Security Email Protocol?

























Trials


Demos


Webinars











About Cisco
Contact Us
Careers
Meet our Partners












Feedback
Help
Terms & Conditions


Privacy Statement




Cookies


Trademarks
Supply Chain Transparency
Sitemap









© Cisco Systems, Inc.


© Wrightstudio |  Dreamstime.com  

Kim's column 


				By Kim Komando, Komando.com
			
• December 9, 2021

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) 



 



Think about just how many times a day your phone, computer, tablet, watch and other gadgets buzz or ding. It gets annoying and distracting.Much of that is likely because you haven’t taken the time to clean up your notifications settings. It’s easier than you think with this quick tech fix. While you’re adjusting settings, I bet you’ll find apps you haven’t used in ages. Tap or click for 5 apps you should delete right now.Then it’s time to tackle the actual junk. If you’ve ever sighed at the sight of spam texts and emails, you’ll love this. Here’s a secret to throwing spammers off your trail.Ever replied to a spam message with STOP or UNSUBSCRIBE? If so, you’re setting yourself up for even more annoyance. You rightfully think that you’re putting an end to the noise, but you’ll make it worse.Why? Spammers are hitting up as many people as possible, searching for working contact information. When you interact, you’re saying, “Yes, this phone number belongs to someone!” That’s great news for them. It lets them know you’re a real person they should target more often.




Privacy, security, the latest trends and the info you need to live your best digital life.





Email address



















Instead, take these steps:For an email: Mark as spam, then hit delete.For a text: Block the phone number and mark the message as spam. Then hit the delete button.You can also forward spam texts to 7726 (that spells “SPAM”). You’ll get back a message from your carrier asking you to reply with the phone number that sent the offending text. It only takes a minute and can help put a stop to some spam campaigns.If you have an iPhone:Find the spam message. Press down on it until a menu pops up.Press More in the lower right. Then, tap on the arrow icon.Now you’ll see a forwarded message. Tap on the To: field. Then, enter 7726 and send the message.If you use an Android phone:Hold down on the spam message.Hit the forward arrow.Send the message to 7726.Want to be a superhero?Go beyond the call of duty and contact the FTC and file a formal complaint. While this step requires more time and effort, it’s an excellent way to fight against spammers. Consider it your good deed for the day.MORE HELP: 6 more clever ways to put a stop to spam texts Spam certainly isn’t limited to calls and texts. Take a look at your inbox. In September 2020, spam accounted for over 47% of all emails sent across the globe, according to Statista.Most email services do a decent job of detecting spam messages, but you can help the sorting process by confirming or denying automatic spam detection. When you get a spam message that wasn’t labeled as such, don’t just delete it. Hit the “report spam” button to train the algorithm to recognize these malicious messages better.You can even do the opposite if you find innocuous emails in the spam folder. Label it as “not spam.” If your inbox is bloated, do something about it. Consider these tactics:Create two email addresses. Use one for personal use and the other for things like shopping, newsletters, surveys and coupons. If you don’t want a separate inbox, try using aliases or create a burner email for one-time use.Never display your email address on public sites. Scammers trawl social networking sites, forums, and blogs for emails. If you do want to post your email address somewhere, write it out, so it’s hard for a bot to pick up, like “name at domain dot com.”Use an original email address. Did you know spammers try to create probable name combinations? Folks with common names are even bigger targets. Try to make a unique address that spammers won’t think up, even if that means adding an extra letter or other characters.Bottom line: Don’t interact with spammers. When you respond, that’s a green light for them to keep chugging towards you. For your peace of mind, get off the tracks.Need a hand fixing a printer, slow PC or audio issues? Post your tech questions to get fast, concrete answers from me and other tech pros. Visit my Q&A Forum and get tech help now.What digital lifestyle questions do you have? Call Kim’s national radio show and tap or click here to find it on your local radio station. You can listen to or watch The Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet, television or computer. Or tap or click here for Kim’s free podcasts.



More:
cybersecurity/online securityspamtexts/texting 







  

Smartphones & gadgets 






  

Small business 






  

Tech tips 










 


Share your source of digital lifestyle news, tips and advice with friends and family, and you'll be on your way to earning awesome rewards!

Get started 


 














Lifestyle





Technology





Security & privacy





Tech tips





Lifestyle






























 







Smartphones & gadgets





Money





Smartphones & gadgets





Kim's column





Safety & security




























More episodes of Kim Komando Daily Tech Update


Last updated on April 20th, 2020 by Editorial Staff | Reader DisclosureDisclosure: Our content is reader-supported. This means if you click on some of our links, then we may earn a commission. See how WPBeginner is funded, why it matters, and how you can support us.





                    Shares                


                435            









                Share            










                Tweet            










                Share            










                Pin            










                Facebook Messenger            









WhatsApp









Email


 
Are you getting a lot of spam messages through your website contact form? This can be really frustrating and time consuming to deal with.
The good news is that there are automated ways to stop contact form spam in WordPress.
In this article, we will share 5 different ways to reduce and block contact form spam in WordPress.

Why You Need to Block Contact Form Spam
Contact form spam is usually automated. It’s an issue even for small, little-known websites as it’s carried out by “bots” that automatically send spam.
These spambots crawl websites and look for non-secure forms, so they can email you spammy links. 
They may also try to break into your login form by using brute force attacks, which is one reason why WordPress security is so important.
Sometimes, they can even look for vulnerabilities in your site’s forms, so they can hijack them to send malware or spam to other people. 
This means that spam isn’t just a nuisance. Those spambots can be dangerous to your website, and your reputation.
Let’s take a look at some proven methods for preventing contact form spam on your WordPress site.

Choose the right plugin to combat contact form spam
Using reCaptcha to block contact form spam
Using invisible recaptcha to block contact form spam
Using custom captcha to prevent contact form spam
Prevent spam bots from seeing your contact form

1. Choosing the Right WordPress Form Plugin to Combat Spam
Many WordPress contact form plugins don’t come with built-in spam protection. Those that do have some spam protection features often aren’t very reliable or easy to use.
The most effective way to block contact form spam is by choosing the best WordPress contact form plugin.
We recommend using WPForms, because it comes with built-in “honeypot” spam protection, which we’ll cover in a moment.
It also has built-in reCAPTCHA and custom CAPTCHA functionality that lets you fight spam. We’ll be going through the different options you can use.
First, you need to install and activate the WPForms plugin. If you’re not sure how to do that, then take a look at our step by step guide on how to install a WordPress plugin.
Note: 3 out of the other 4 tips in this article also works on the free WPForms lite version as well.
Once WPForms plugin is activated, you’ll need to create a contact form. 
Simply head to WPForms » Add New, enter a name for your form, and select the ‘Simple Contact Form’ template. 

WPForms will automatically create a basic contact form for you with fields for the person’s name, email address, and message:

By default, WPForms will enable an anti-spam “honeypot” for you. This is an invisible field that users can’t see, but that bots will try to fill out. When that field is filled out, the form will be rejected as spam.
You can check this setting on any of your forms under Settings » General. ‘Enable anti-spam honeypot’ should be automatically enabled.

What if some spam is still getting through? Then you can use any of the below methods to stop spammers from using your contact form.
2. Use ReCAPTCHA Checkbox to Block Contact Form Spam
One straightforward way to stop the spambots getting through is to use ReCAPTCHA. This method also works with the lite version of WPForms.
ReCAPTCHA is a free tool available from Google, and we use it in combination with WPForms built-in honeypot system.
To add a reCAPTCHA checkbox to your form, you’ll need to first go to WPForms » Settings in your WordPress dashboard and click on the ‘reCAPTCHA’ tab.

Next, you need to select ‘Checkbox reCAPTCHA v2’ by clicking on it. 
To get your Site Key and Secret Key, you need to go to Google’s reCAPTCHA setup page.
On the Google reCAPTCHA page, click the blue ‘Admin console’ button on the top right.

If you’re not already logged into your G Suite account, then you’ll be prompted to login or create an account.
Next, you’ll see a screen where you can register your site. You need to start by typing in a label for your site. This is for your own reference and will not be visible to users. 
After that you need to select ‘reCaptcha v2’ and the ‘I’m not a robot’ checkbox option. 

Next, enter your website’s domain name.
Your email address will already be present since you’re logged into your Google account. However, you can enter additional email addresses if you want.
After that, you need to check the box to accept the terms of service and click the ‘Submit’ button at the bottom of the page.

Next, you’ll see a page with a site key and secret key for your website. 

You need to copy and paste the site key / secret key into your WPForms » Settings page in your WordPress dashboard. After that click on the ‘Save Settings’ at the bottom of that screen.

Now, you can add the reCAPTCHA checkbox to your contact form.
Find your form under WPForms » All Forms and then click to edit it.
Once inside the form builder, click on the ‘reCAPTCHA’ field on the left hand side. You’ll see a message that tells you that reCAPTCHA has been enabled for the form. Simply click the ‘OK’ button to continue.

You’ll now see the reCAPTCHA logo at the top of your form.

Note: If you want to take reCAPTCHA off your form at any point, just click on the ‘reCAPTCHA’ field on the left again. You’ll see a message prompting you to confirm that you want to remove it.
Once you’re done, make sure you save your form, so you can then add it to your website.
Adding Your Contact Form to Your Website
To add your form, go to your Contact page and click to add a new block. Select the ‘WPForms’ block by searching for it or by looking for it under ‘Widgets’.

Next, select your form from the dropdown list, and it’ll be added to your page.

When you preview or view your page, you should see the reCAPTCHA box at the bottom of your form.

This should drastically reduce contact form spam on your website since it eliminates all automated spam submissions.
3. Using Google Invisible reCAPTCHA to Block Contact Form Spam
Some website owners don’t want their users to have to check a box in order to submit the contact form. This is where invisible reCAPTCHA comes in.
Invisible reCAPTCHA works just like the regular reCAPTCHA, except there’s no checkbox.
Instead, when the form is submitted, Google will determine whether it might be a bot submitting it. If so, Google will pop up the extra reCAPTCHA verification. If you want to see how it works, Google has a demo here.
You can use invisible reCAPTCHA on your WPForms contact forms. It’s very similar to the process above for using a reCAPTCHA checkbox. 
The first difference is that you need to select a different option when setting up reCAPTCHA with Google. Instead of picking the ‘I’m not a robot’ checkbox option, choose ‘Invisible reCAPTCHA badge’.

Next, when you go to WPForms » Settings and click the ‘reCAPTCHA’ tab, you’ll need to select the ‘Invisible reCAPTCHA v2’ option:

When you add the reCAPTCHA field to your contact form, it’ll now use the invisible reCAPTCHA. When users come to your form, it’ll look like this:

The reCAPTCHA logo will always be on the bottom right of the screen.
If the user wants to know more about reCAPTCHA on your site, then they can click that logo. It’ll expand to show links to Google’s privacy policy and terms of service. You should also update your own site’s privacy policy.
Note: in the screenshot, you’ll see the option for reCAPTCHA v3, but we’re specifically not covering that since it has a lot of false positives and can block real users. We use and recommend reCAPTCHA v2 Checkbox option that we showed in our step 2 of the article.
4. Using Custom Captcha to Block Contact Form Spam
Some website owners don’t want to use Google’s reCAPTCHA on their site due to privacy concerns, or they simply want something not branded.
In that case, you can use WPForms custom CAPTCHA addon which is part of the Pro plugin. 
It lets you create custom math questions CAPTCHA or other custom questions that you can use as validation.
To use this addon, you need to go to WPForms » Addons, find the Custom Captcha Addon, and click the ‘Install Addon’ button.

The addon should install then activate automatically. 
Once it’s installed, go to WPForms » All Forms and open up your contact form. Under ‘Fancy Fields’ you’ll find the ‘Captcha’ field. 
Click on it and drag it onto your form. We recommend placing it just above the ‘Submit’ button.

If you want to change the Captcha field from the default math question, click on it and select the type of Captcha you want to use. The options are ‘Math’ or ‘Question and Answer’. 

When you choose the Math option, WPForms will generate random math questions, so it’s less predictable.
If you’re choosing Question and Answer option, then we recommend adding at least a few questions there, so it’s harder to predict since WPForms will rotate them randomly.
Once you’re happy with your form, save it, then add it to your Contact page. You can do so by creating a ‘WPForms’ block, as shown in the reCAPTCHA checkbox method.
5. Prevent Spam Bots From Seeing Your Form
Perhaps you don’t want to use reCAPTCHA or a custom captcha field on your form.
Another way to prevent contact form spam is to stop bots from seeing your form. You could do this using password protection, or by only showing your form to registered users of your WordPress membership site.
These methods might be overkill for your regular contact form, but they could work well in other situations.
For instance, if you run a monthly Q&A for your email newsletter subscribers, you could create a form for them to submit questions. 
Password Protecting Your Form Using WordPress’ Visibility Options
This is a quick way to password protect your contact page.
Go to the ‘Publish’ settings for your page then set the visibility to ‘Password Protected’. Pick a password for your page. This will be the same for all users.

When you publish your page, it’ll look like this when people first arrive there. They’ll need to enter the password to see the page and the contact form.

Once they’ve entered the password, they can use your form as normal.
There are a couple of drawbacks to this method.
First, your page will show the default WordPress message. This reads, “To view this protected post, enter the password below.” It isn’t easy to edit this.
Second, your whole page will be protected, not just your form. This could be annoying if you want to have some content, such as FAQs, visible to all users.
Password Protecting Your Form Using a WPForms Addon
If you’re using the Pro version of WPForms, then you can install the Form Locker addon which lets you password protect your form itself, not your whole page.
To install it, go to WPForms » Addons. Find the Form Locker Addon and click ‘Install Addon’. It should automatically activate.

Next, find the form you want to protect under WPForms » All Forms. Click on it to edit it.
Go to Settings » Form Locker. Check the ‘Enable Password Protection’ box and you’ll then see the options to enter your password and your message.

Your contact page will now be visible to all users, with just the contact form hidden. The form will look like this before the password is entered:

Showing Your Contact Page Only to Registered Users
A final method is to only let users access your contact form if they’ve registered on your site. You could use a membership site plugin and protect your contact page so it can only be viewed by logged-in members.
This is a great option if you want to offer a specific service to members only. There are several great membership site plugins you could use to do this.
We hope this article has helped you learn how to block contact form spam in WordPress. You may also want to see our guide on how to create a business email address and our comparison of the best business phone services.
If you liked this article, then please subscribe to our YouTube Channel for WordPress video tutorials. You can also find us on Twitter and Facebook. 






                    Shares                


                435            









                Share            










                Tweet            










                Share            










                Pin            










                Facebook Messenger            









WhatsApp









Email


Eyal GoldshmidSpecial to TCPalmView CommentsQ: I am receiving between 30 to 40 junk emails a day in my inbox of late. I take each one and move it to the Junk Mail folder in my email program, but despite doing this I still receive more of them minutes later. Each email appears to be identical and often they arrive in pairs, two of them at exactly the same time. I tried logging into my webmail account on Comcast.net as well and marking them as spam there but also this hasn't helped. I have also tried clicking on the "Unsubscribe" command at the bottom of the emails I receive but when I do my antivirus pops up saying that the website I am about to visit is dangerous and won't load it. I'm not sure what to make of this and it's been going on for a couple of months now. I use Microsoft Edge as my browser and Outlook for my email. Any idea what I can do?  — Dennis L., Jensen BeachA: The behavior above seems to imply that you've fallen victim to either a spam onslaught, a virus infection, a hacking of your email account -- or a combination of all three.In the case of the former, most likely this was caused by your email address being validated to the source of the spam via one of those attempts to "unsubscribe" from one or more of these messages.Either that or one of the pages you clicked on to unsubscribe from the mailing list opened to a launch page for a virus and that caused an infection (as it may have not been halted by your antivirus for one reason or another).It's important to remember that the "Unsubscribe" link often found at the bottom of advertisement emails does not always mean that it will perform that action. In today's world of mailing lists, ghosted identities and database hacks, clicking 'unsubscribe" now seems to serve only as validation of a live email account that can receive more spam, or a means of stealing one's login credentials to use elsewhere, instead of an act of polite removal. As such, unless you absolutely know the source of the email being sent to you, it's now best to delete or mark these emails as Spam instead of trying to stop them from being delivered.Given the propensity of emails you're receiving, the best first step is to contact Comcast Support and inform them of the problem. Ask if they can do anything to help and/or if they can increase the server-side spam protection for your account, as this should be within their capabilities and jurisdiction.In addition, also consider changing the password to your email account (first on your webmail account and then in Outlook) just in case the account has been hacked or the credentials have been leaked.Naturally, if you cannot change your account password, inform Comcast Support of this immediately so they can take action, as this verifies that your account has indeed been compromised.As for the potential virus infection, scan your system again with your existing antivirus again to see what turns up and then perform a scan with eSet via the following URL: https://www.eset.com/us/home/online-scanner/Note: This is a link to the robust free online scanner provided by this company -- there is no need to download the program to perform the scan, just launch the scanner itself from the link above and it takes place within your web browser. It's a very complex scan and will take several hours to complete so be patient with it or choose to run the scan at night when you're done with your system for the day so it will not interfere with your computing sessions.Unfortunately, if the steps above do not help, then consider speaking with a local technician for additional assistance.At the center of the fun blog at alcoholinfusions.com is a feature titled "A Year of Cocktails," which chronicles the site's founders as they progress through all the recipes published in a found copy of "Mr. Boston Official Bartender’s Guide," first published after Prohibition was repealed. Starting with the "Abbey Cocktail" and moving forward alphabetically, the site chronicles both their successes and failures in addition to charting their own attempts at mastering the art of alcoholic infusions (as the site's name suggests) as a means of re-creating the some of phased out spirits listed in some of the book's recipes. As expected, the bevy of entries here are fun, light-hearted and offer plenty of interest for the cocktail enthusiast and historian. Cheers!Contact Eyal Goldshmid @ egoldshmid@yahoo.com.View Comments


Last updated: 

                        
                        February 11, 2022
                        
                      







Applies to:





All products and plans







Email addresses entered into the Email field on a HubSpot form are immediately validated by HubSpot. If the email address is not valid (does not exist, is misspelled, etc.), the form cannot be submitted.
You can provide additional protection against spam form submissions by enabling CAPTCHA and blocking specific email domains or free email providers.


CAPTCHA adds a step to your form verifying that a visitor is not a robot before they can submit the form. To enable CAPTCHA on a form:

In your HubSpot account, navigate to Marketing > Lead Capture > Forms.


Click the name of a form.
In the left pane, locate the Other Form Elements section and click to toggle the Captcha (SPAM Prevention) switch on.



In the top right, click Publish.

If you enable CAPTCHA, Google's invisible reCAPTCHA will appear on your form when you add the form to a page. If Google determines that a visitor is suspicious, they must solve a CAPTCHA challenge before they can submit the form.


Please note:

if your regular form or pop-up form includes a follow-up email, a CAPTCHA will automatically be added to the form. To remove the CAPTCHA from the form, delete the follow-up emails in the Follow-up tab of the form editor.
If CAPTCHA has been enabled on the form, form submissions from the Submit data for a form API or other form integrations will not be accepted. 



You can block specific email domains or free email providers on your form to encourage your visitors to provide high-quality business email addresses.

Forms


What is spam? What is a cold email? And when is your email against the law?
There is a lot of confusion surrounding these questions. Many people seem to carry the misconception that any cold or unsolicited email is spam, and that spam is illegal. 
There is a lot to unpack here, but let me start by making clear that if all cold emails were illegal, we wouldn’t be driving successful email marketing campaigns for thousands of companies worldwide.
To start with, let’s clarify the distinction between “spam” and illegal email. “Spam” is not a legal term, and definitions vary. A spam message may not be illegal, and an illegal message may not be spam, by certain definitions.
According to Spamhaus (a supplier of realtime threat intelligence), an unsolicited message is spam if, “the recipient’s personal identity and context are irrelevant because the message is equally applicable to many other potential recipients.”
It is clear from this definition that if you are doing your job as an email marketer, you should NEVER be sending spam. Good sales and marketing teams target specific people for specific reasons and with specific messages. 

Spam refers to those impersonal solicitations for pharmaceuticals, weight loss products, or investment opportunities. Every one of us has found them in our inboxes, or more likely our spam folders.
Whether a message is spam does not answer whether it is illegal. In fact, SPAM IS LEGAL in the United States. That is, whether your email is solicited or unsolicited, and whether it is highly targeted or not, have nothing to do with legality under U.S. law. 
The name of the relevant statute says it all: the (you) CAN SPAM (Act).
This often surprises people. So to reiterate: It is legal in the U.S. to send an unsolicited commercial email.
You do, however, have to comply with certain rules when sending those unsolicited emails, and if you don’t, the penalties can be very serious. Follow these five simple guidelines, and stay on the right side of the CAN-SPAM Act.





 Introducing Chorus Momentum Signals
 Know Your Pipeline Risk. Enjoy More Wins. 



Learn More 






The CAN-SPAM Act, enacted in 2003, establishes requirements for commercial messages, gives recipients the right to have you stop emailing them, and spells out penalties for violations. The Act applies to “any electronic mail message the primary purpose of which is the commercial advertisement or promotion of a commercial product or service.” 
The requirements marketers must comply to include the following:

The first requirement of the CAN-SPAM Act is that recipients must have a way of opting out of your messages. An opt-out can be as easy as an unsubscribe link. Or you can ask the recipient to email you back for email list removal. Whatever the opt-out method is, it must notify the recipient that there is something they can do if they don’t want to receive messages from you.

Once someone opts out of your messages, you have 10 days to get them off your email list. If you are emailing more than a handful of prospects, you will likely need a marketing or sales automation tool to track these unsubscribes. Manually processing email replies with “unsubscribe” in the subject line is not a scalable strategy.

All marketers could get great open rates if they used spam subject lines and email titles like, “URGENT: News about your mother’s health”—except disgraceful tactics like this violate the CAN-SPAM Act. 
You can still be clever, however. Some of the best subject lines are intentionally brief without being misleading. You might try:
Humor: “Best of Groupon: The Deals That Make Us Proud (Unlike Our Nephew, Steve)”Personalization: “Hey Katie – 90.7% of Marketers are Leveraging Data, Are You?”Sense of urgency: “I called. You didn’t answer.”

Make sure your “From:” and “Reply to:” fields accurately represent you and your company. You can’t pull tricks like making up multiple generic domains to mask your identity or circumvent email filters.

To be compliant with the CAN-SPAM Act, include your company’s physical address at the bottom of your message. This can be a post office box you’ve registered with the U.S. Postal Service.
This is not an exhaustive list of requirements set forth in the CAN-SPAM Act, so do a deep dive into the CAN-SPAM Act and/or consult your attorney before launching your first cold email campaign. The key takeaway is this: You can send cold emails—you just have to make sure you’re following the guidelines set out in the statute. 
The CAN-SPAM Act, of course, applies only in the United States. If you are sending emails to other countries, you need to make sure you understand the laws of those countries.
If you think you can fire off a cold email campaign to prospects in Canada, think again. Canadian laws are much more particular about how you send commercial email. Similarly, laws in Germany don’t leave much wiggle room for cold email outreach.

Even when following every guideline and complying with federal regulations, you’ve got to be careful about how you send the messages.
While it is not a legal requirement in the US, some Marketing Automation Tools (MAT) and Email Service Providers (ESP) require users to only send to recipients who have opted in for email communication from you. So you need to check the terms of service for the tools you’re using if you want to send a cold email campaign.
It’s important to understand why some email marketing tools have imposed this: traditional unsolicited lists have extremely high bounce rates.

Cold email lists are known for being low quality. They’re usually cheap. They’re almost always outdated and full of invalid emails. That’s why cold email lists are frowned upon at companies that offer shared IP email services. 
The best-purchased lists have a bounce rate of around 10%, and most will bounce at least 25% of the time. At those rates, you’re just asking for reputational deliverability issues.
And when you have a high bounce rate with a shared IP address, you’re not just hurting your reputation—you’re hurting the reputation of everyone else that’s using that IP address.
Having the right tools helps with these bounce rates.
Along with having a reliable data provider, using email cleansing tools ensure campaigns always end up with acceptable bounce rates. Lower bounce rates depend on accurate data in large quantities collected from machine learning, contribution networks, third party partners, and human researchers. 
So with accurate, up-to-data paired with email hygiene tools, reputation issues are also avoided, resulting in more successful email campaigns.
If you don’t have an outbound strategy, think about it. Sending relevant messages to the right people works. You’re not going to get in trouble. Will some contacts request that you stop sending them emails? Absolutely, and you do have to honor those requests.
But in the U.S., cold emails are legal—and cold email campaigns work.





 Introducing Chorus Momentum Signals
 Know Your Pipeline Risk. Enjoy More Wins. 



Learn More 




It’s Our Business to Grow YoursDiscover how to unlock target markets and hit your number with insight-driven engagement.Free Trialrelated playsWeb form submission fast follow-upCold call fast follow on sent emailImmediate follow-up with demo no-shows


Cyber Aware




Blogs
Awareness
Alerts
Resources
Search

































Awareness & Education 
                            















Spam is an unsolicited message sent to your mobile phone or email, often to promote goods and services, push a political or social agenda or spread a virus.
 









Spam email, or junk email, is more than just an annoying, long-standing internet problem. It can contain spyware (“trojans”), or direct you to fake sites where scammers will try to trick you into revealing information.
Since email is a cheap way to contact people, marketers send lots of it to try to sell their products and services. 
 They find you by:

Scanning online discussion groups
Visiting chatrooms
Buying or stealing internet mailing lists
Searching the web for email addresses
Randomly guessing email addresses









Here are a few tips to limit your exposure and help reduce the amount of spam you receive:

Consider using more than one email address – use one with close friends and family, another for shopping or newsletters.
Filter out potential spam or push it to a separate folder in your email.
Only share your email address with someone you know, and when you know how they will use it.
Opt out of marketing messages when registering with a new site.
Ignore spam email, even if it offers to unsubscribe you. A reply lets the spammer know your address is active.
Never click a web link listed within a spam email.
Disregard sites that promise to remove your name from spam lists. They are likely address collectors.
If you post your email address in a public place, add a character to change it slightly. This could be as simple as inserting a number before the @ symbol. This will protect your true email address from crooks using computer programs to search for email addresses.

 









To reduce text spam, consider the following:

Reply to unsolicited short codes with “STOP” in the body of the response to prevent future messages.
Block calls and texts from a specific 10-digit number by going to AT&T Call Protect.
If the calls continue, report the number to our customer care team.

 









We want all customers to know that we will not ask for information through email or text messages. If you think a caller is trying to scam you, hang up. If you receive a suspicious text message, forward it to 7726 (SPAM).  
If you suspect you are a target of fraud on your AT&T mobile phone account, you can report it to our Fraud team here. If you suspect fraud on another account, call the customer service number on your bill for help.
You can also share the suspicious message with the Anti-Phishing Working Group or report it to the FTC.
To find out more about reporting fraud, check out our Resources page.

 







HTML Editor Component *Contents may not have visible height























Help Protect Friends from Spam
Email messages that get forwarded multiple times, like jokes or email hoaxes, are an easy way for spammers to harvest email addresses. Help protect yourself and your friends by deleting all addresses when you forward emails. Or, consider BCC’ing your friends, which will keep their email addresses private.











AT&T Call Protect
This free network-based service gives eligible AT&T wireless customers with HD Voice more control over unwanted calls on their smartphones. Simply add the feature through your myAT&T account or the AT&T Call Protect app and you can receive suspected spam warnings on your screen when you receive an incoming call.


Home » Internet Security » What Are Spam Emails and How Can I Prevent Them?














        By       

        Rebecca Edwards      


      Security Expert, Safety & Tech Reporter    




December 09, 2021Share Article















Spam emails are the electronic equivalent of all that junk mail you throw out after emptying the mailbox. Spam is primarily made up of unsolicited emails trying to sell you something or trick you into giving away crucial personal data.




















 
Master your smart devices with our weekly newsletterSign up to get the latest smart home tips and reviews directly in your inbox. 













          Email*
        












By signing up, you agree to our Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy.
















 
 
If you have an email account, chances are you’ve seen at least a few of these obnoxious spam messages.

Foreign banking scams (like that famed Nigerian prince who needs your help)
Phishing scams seeking out your personal info
“Make money fast” or “get rich quick” schemes
Solicitations for online dating
Ads for “miracle” medical cures
Ads from pornographic websites
Chain mail (Forward this message to six friends to get a super prize!)
Offers to help you improve your business, your love life, your hair growth, etc.

 
 
The only way to completely eradicate spam from your life is to drop email altogether. Because that’s an unrealistic option for most of us, let’s look at ways to minimize the amount of spam coming your way.
 
 






 


                  Antivirus software with spam filter                




 

Avast Internet Security 

Visit Avast 




All email services come with mailbox filters that help you sort out what kinds of emails you receive and where they go. You want to send emails from unknown senders to a junk folder where they’ll be automatically deleted after a set number of days.
Just keep in mind that sometimes legitimate emails may get erroneously relegated to the junk folder, so make sure to check it periodically and mark any senders you know as safe.
For extra protection install a third-party spam filter like Avast to block and delete blacklisted email addresses and scan for bad links and attachments.






 
 
If a spam email somehow makes it into your inbox, be sure to mark it as spam so your email provider will recognize it as such in the future.
 
 
When you recognize a message as spam, don’t open it. If you open it before you realize it’s spam, hit delete. Never respond to a spam email, click on an unknown link, or open an unknown attachment.
 
4. Lock down your email address  
Try to minimize how many people have access to your email address. If you can get away with it, don’t post your email on any public websites or forums—including social media and job-hunting websites.
If you have to post an email address online, consider setting up an alternate or disposable email account to keep your main email hidden. Check out Blur  to learn more about disposable email.
Get extra help keeping out spam emails with anti-malware software that looks for suspicious elements before the email can make it to your inbox.











 
 

How Do I Report Online Scams?
How Can I Tell If My Online Transaction Is Secure?
How Can I Keep Grandma and Grandpa Safe Online?
Internet Safety: How to Avoid Online Scams
How Can You Tell If a Website Is Safe?
10 Cybersecurity Tips for Online Shopping












 
 
BrandBest forStarting priceSpecsStandout featureLearn moreRead reviewBarkBest parental control
$99.00/yr.Unlimited devicesEmail and social media monitoring
View PlansRead reviewBitdefender Total SecurityBest antivirus/malware software
$24.99/yr.Protects up to 5 devices
Includes VPN and parental controlsView on AmazonRead reviewNordVPNBest VPN$11.95/mo.Works on 6 devices
5,100 servers60 countries
View PlansRead reviewIdentityForceBest identity theft protection
$9.99/mo.$1 million recovery insurance
Two-factor authentication
View PlansRead reviewDashlaneBest password manager
$0.00Unlimited devices with Premium plan
VPN and dark web monitoring with Premium plan
View PlansRead reviewData as of post date. Offers and availability may vary by location and are subject to change. SafeWise uses paid Amazon links.










Share Article









      Written by    

    Rebecca Edwards  

      Rebecca is the lead safety reporter and in-house expert for SafeWise.com. She has been a journalist and blogger for over 25 years, with a focus on home and community safety for the past eight. Rebecca spends dozens of hours every month poring over crime reports and spotting trends. Her safety expertise is sought after by publications, broadcast journalists, non-profit organizations, podcasts, and more. 
You can find her expert advice and analysis in places like TechCrunch, The Washington Post, The Chicago Tribune, The Miami Herald, NPR, HGTV, MSN, Reader's Digest, Real Simple, and an ever-growing library of radio and TV clips.    


        Read More      


 












 
 
 

 



By Cathy Habas 

            05/18/2022          


          The Best Medical Alert Systems of 2022        

            See which medical alert system is the best to keep you and your loved one...          




 



By Alina Bradford 

            05/16/2022          


          10 Best Home Security Systems of 2022        

            After hundreds of hours of tests and research, plus a combined 50+ years of experience,...          




 



By John Carlsen 

            05/13/2022          


          Best DIY Home Security Systems of 2022        

            DIY install home security systems are cost-efficient, effective, and easy to install. See which DIY...          




 



By Cathy Habas 

            05/12/2022          


          2022 Best Home Security Systems for Renters        

            These renter-friendly home security systems keep your house or apartment safe and require less commitment...


Last Updated: July 6, 2015 - 11:25 EDT



“Spam” is a term that generally refers to advertisements, warnings of new viruses, or other trivial information sent in bulk over email.  Also referred to as “junk email”, the point of spam is usually just to irritate people who receive it by cluttering up their email inbox.  However, some spam is more insidious, containing phishing scams or attachments that contain viruses or other malicious programs.
A common spam email looks like this:

Unfortunately, spam is difficult to stop entirely, because it is easy to create spam emails, fake email addresses, and mass-mailing lists.  This allows “spammers” to quickly use multiple fake email accounts to send out messages to thousands of people at once.  Fortunately, there are some easy ways to avoid being buried or burned by spam.


Many modern Web-based email clients, such as Google Gmail, Microsoft Outlook, or Yahoo Mail have built-in features that automatically detect spam emails based on certain shared features, much like how anti-virus software works.  They will automatically deflect these emails away from your inbox and into a special “Spam” or “Junk” folder.

In some email clients, you can also add an extra layer of defense by adding your own custom filters, should you find that some spam emails are still getting through.  You can look for common patterns that appear in spam emails that make it through the spam filter, and then enter those patterns into your filter to catch the emails that the regular spam filter misses.
To learn how to use the filter system in Gmail, for example, see our Gmail Filters tutorial.
You can also download and install an anti-spam computer program such as POPFile, Spamihilator, or MailWasher.

As we discussed in our How to be Safe on the Internet tutorial, there are several common flaws that often appear in spam emails that won’t appear in legitimate emails.  If you look closely at the content of any email that you receive, especially the sender’s email address or any hyperlinks that you are asked to follow, you may be able to spot spam indicators.  These include:


Advertising or contests with rewards that seem too good to be true, such as a “miracle diet pill” or a “5-star all-expenses-paid Caribbean cruise”


Numerous obvious spelling or grammar mistakes


Sender addresses or hyperlinks that have spelling mistakes or otherwise look strange (such as “www.amazzzon.com” or “[email protected]”), or that you’ve never heard of before


Requests for personal information or money, or to follow a hyperlink to a website in order to input personal information (most legitimate companies will NEVER do this, as per their policies)


Any one of these could be a hint that you’re dealing with a spam email.  Again, be sure to check all emails that you receive thoroughly for these warning signs, including the sender’s address as well as the content of the email itself.

Aside from perhaps opening or previewing an email (just to see what it is), once you have more-or-less identified an email as spam, it’s generally not a good idea to take any other action with it besides deleting it.  That means you shouldn’t reply to it, click any links or pictures within it, or open or download any files attached to it. 
Even if some spam is just harmless bulk advertising, the people who send it can sometimes track what you do with it.  Therefore, they’ll be able to tell if you do something with spam email other than deleting it, and that can make your a target for even more spam.
Plus, there are certain dangerous types of spam that can let cyber-criminals steal your personal information or install a malicious program on your computer if you do anything other than delete them.  \
ADVANCED TIP: Many web-based email clients such as Google Gmail and Microsoft Outlook have the ability to report suspected spam attempts.  If you are able to, select a message that you think is spam, and look for an option to click such as “Mark as Spam” or “Mark as Junk”.

This will not only delete these emails, but it will often teach your email client to avoid these types of emails for both yourself and other people who use the same client.  This means that you’ll be helping other people avoid getting their email inboxes clogged with spam!

If you use a spam filter, as outlined in tip #1, be aware that it’s not always perfect.  It may sometimes classify certain emails that you get as spam — even though they’re not — due to certain patterns they have that it associates with spam emails.  It might not be a bad idea to occasionally check your “Spam” folder in your email client (if you have one) to make sure that any legitimate emails haven’t ended up there. 
In fact, when some websites send you certain important emails, they will warn you that said emails might be blocked by certain spam filters.  Therefore, if you can’t find an email that you were supposed to get relatively immediately in your inbox, try checking your spam folder.
In addition, there are some spam filters that you can add exceptions to, in order to teach them that certain emails you receive aren’t spam.  If you find an email that shouldn’t be marked as spam, see if you can click something like “Move to Inbox” or “Mark as Not Junk.”

 
For more tips on how to stop spam email, and how to get rid of it on certain mobile devices (such as tablet computers and smart phones), check out this YouTube video by our brand ambassador, Abby Stokes.
Now you know what spam is, and how to identify and get rid of it.  Next up, we’ll look at some advanced forms of spam that actively try to steal from you and/or harm your computer.

 


 
How to Delete Your Kik Account


 


 
4 Easiest Ways to Record Phone Calls on your Android Phone


 


 
How Online Marketing Targets Children


 


 
How to Delete a Wix Account and Get a Refund for Your Subscription


 

 




Previous Tutorial
Email Safety: Spam, Scams, and Attachments




Next Tutorial
Phishing Scams: Prevention Tips and Examples


Updated on October 12, 2020 by James Richardson 4 Minutes, 4 Seconds to ReadIf you want to learn how to stop spam then this is where you want to be. If you are receiving tons of spam emails that you never asked for and you cannot filter them with programs like Spam Assassin, you can permanently stop spam by submitting them to SpamCop. SpamCop is a DNS blacklisting company that can blacklist the spammers hosting company’s email IP address. Most email service providers use the known blacklists found at sites like MX Toolbox. When an email server is put on a blacklist, the server that was sending the spam will no longer be able to send emails.We are a hosting company that provides space for individuals to create their website and manage their email on our server. We do not submit spam to DNS blacklisting companies. The owner of the domain and/or the account holder are responsible for managing their own email and website activity per our Terms of use.The CAN-SPAM Act has guidelines for legitimate email marketing. On the CAN-SPAM Act: A Compliance Guide for Business site, emails are unacceptable and considered spam if they:  Have false or misleading header information Have deceptive subject lines Are not identified as an add Do Not tell recipients where they are located If there are no opt out links to stop future emails Do not promptly process opt-out requests If the emails are from Unmonitored marketing companiesStopping spammer activities is not only helpful for you, but also helps others that are getting spam from the same originating server. Let’s go through the steps on how to submit spam to SpamCop. Visit SpamCop and click the Report Spam tab at the top left.Important! Reporting spam is a serious accusation against a company and is not be taken lightly. If spam is reported that is not spam, you will be viewed negatively by spamcop and may be denied their services.  Get a free account from SpamCop.The only difference between a paid and free account you have to wait ~6 seconds between each spam submittal. Enter your Full name and your Email address and click the Send authorization email button.You will receive an email (at the email that was entered in their form) from SpamCop with the login instructions to use their service. Once you receive the login information, login to SpamCop. Save the spam email to your desktop. Saving an email to your desktop will vary depending on what program you use. Typically you can drag the email directly to the desktop (Outlook has this capability) or you can right click the email in your email client and “Save as” the email ( for example, Thunderbird).Once you get the email saved to your desktop, open the email in a text editor like Notepad. The email should look like the snapshot to the right. Copy the contents of the email with the headers and then paste it into the form submittal at SpamCop. You can also forward the emails to them (Forwarding the emails to SpamCop will not be explained in this article). Click the Process Spam button. Here is where SpamCop will make you wait. The site will display Please wait – subscribe to remove this delay. Just wait approximately 6 seconds and the page will redirect. To speed up the submittal process, especially if you have quite a few spam emails to submit, make a canned response in a text document that you can reuse for each submittal.You can make a canned response and save it in a text document that says:To whom it may concern,  Please stop these spammers from emailing me. Their subject line keeps changing. The originating server and email address changes making it impossible to filter.  We did not opt into this and their opt out link does not work. Please cease this spam activity. 
Sincerely, 
Your First nameWhen the spam is submitted to them, they will give you a link that will have a form to email the sending spammers hosting company.Important! On the send spam reports page, pay attention to the Please make sure this email IS spam: header information. SpamCop will display the information taken from the spam email that was sent. In this case, the email is clearly a spam email. the following is shown:From: “Canadian Pharmacy” <[email protected]> (Canadian Pharmacy : Viagra + CIALIS !!)Click the Send Spam Report(s) Now button.Once you submit that to spam to them, the sending spammer will be added to the SpamCop DNS blacklist and they will not be able to email anyone after that. SpamCop encourages email administrators to submit spam to them as they help not only their own interest in stopping spam, but, other spam companies as well. For more information on spam, please check the last article on SPF Records and Domain Keys: Combating Spam.


Email, Messaging, & Video Calls
 >
 Email






346

346 people found this article helpful








By

Anita George








 

Anita George




 


Facebook
 

 


Twitter
 



Writer


University of Georgia

Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication


Anita George is a writer who has been covering technology since 2013. Her work has appeared in Paste Magazine and she holds both B.A. and B.S. degrees.



lifewire's editorial guidelines




Updated on September 19, 2020










Tweet







Share







Email



















Tweet







Share







Email






















Jump to a Section










Common Causes of Junk Email




Unsubscribe From Advertising and Marketing Email Lists




Block and Report Harmful Spam




Types of Harmful Spam












No matter how hard you try, you'll never avoid junk or spam emails. You can hide most spam emails in a spam folder using filters, but some unwanted emails will slip through the cracks. There's no guaranteed way to eliminate all spam from your inboxes, but here are a few ways to reduce the amount of spam you're receiving.


 

To understand how to reduce junk email, you have to consider the source of these emails, usually spammers, and the methods they use to flood you with spam emails.



One of the most common forms of spam you've probably experienced is marketing emails from legitimate retailers and other companies. While signing up for a service or account with one of these companies, you may have also signed up for their weekly newsletters/circulars/or emailed coupons. Spam caused by you providing your email address to a legitimate company may be annoying, but it's usually harmless.



However, malicious spam emails do exist. They're usually sent by spammers and not by reputable companies. There are several ways spammers can get your email address, including purchasing (illegal) lists of email addresses stolen from internet service providers.




If you can't avoid publishing your email address where spammers can grab it, you can try to mask your email address by posting it as an image instead of text or use a disposable email address service.

 

As we mentioned earlier, commercial ad spam from reputable retailers or other companies is generally harmless. If you're already receiving commercial ad spam from a reputable company and you want it to stop, here's how to unsubscribe from them.




To avoid getting more of these in the future, look out for an opt-out option for that company's marketing emails or newsletter when signing up for a website or service. It's usually a checkbox you can select to either opt-in or out of promotional emails.




Log in to your email account.





Open one of the marketing emails you'd no longer like to receive.





Scroll to the bottom of the message, and look for an unsubscribe link. Click it only if you're sure you subscribed to the list.



If you didn't subscribe to this promotional email, delete the message instead. Clicking the link won't unsubscribe you, and could let a spammer know your email address is valid and ripe for receiving spam emails. 




Some email providers, like Gmail, may have their own unsubscribe button you can select. In Gmail, it's usually located to the right of the sender's name.



 

Your email provider's in-house spam filter is the most effective defense against these more malicious junk emails when it comes to harmful spam. Sometimes, those filters need a little help because some spam emails can pass through the filters.



You can teach those filters to be more discerning by blocking their senders and making sure to mark or report junk emails as spam when you notice them trickling into your inbox.



Here's how to report such messages as spam and block specific senders, so your email provider knows to filter out those messages.





Log in to your email account.





Open the message you want to report as spam, and optionally, block the sender.





Right-click the message from your inbox or select the three dots icon within the email.




This step will vary based on your email provider. For example, in Outlook, you can right-click the email; in Gmail and Hotmail, select the three dots icon.




To mark a message as spam, select Report spam, Mark as spam, or even Mark as junk. The names for these options may vary among email providers.






To block a sender of spam (or any other person who sends unwanted emails), you select Block sender. The name may vary among email providers.





 

Harmful spam can threaten the security of your personal data and your computer's health, as they're usually used to either steal personal information from you, infect your computer with malware, or both.



The most common types of harmful spam are:



Money scams: Spam emails meant to swindle unsuspecting email users into either sending money to the spammer or sharing personal financial information in hopes of receiving a payment from the spammer.Sweepstakes winner spam: Emails that "notify" you about winning a contest you likely never entered. To "claim" your prize, you'll usually have to click a sketchy link or provide personal information.Email spoofing/phishing scams: Emails created to look like official emails from companies you trust. These emails imitate things like company logos to trick unsuspecting recipients into sending sensitive, personal information.Antivirus warning spam: Spam emails that "warn" you about malware infections and conveniently offer to scan your computer (or some other antivirus assistance) to help "fix" your computer. When users try to access the support via a sketchy link, malware infects their machines, or worse, the scammer gains access to the recipients' system.





Was this page helpful?




Thanks for letting us know!



Get the Latest Tech News Delivered Every Day




Email Address



There was an error. Please try again.



You're in! Thanks for signing up.

There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you  for signing up!





Tell us why!


Home
Blog
About Us
 

My account
Cart
Checkout
Contact
Log InRegister 








 



Search 








 


CALL TODAY586-226-0400
 

 












Home
Website Packages














Great business starter website, pricing starting @ $399.




LEARN MORE 





A small business website up to 10 pages, starting @ $1299.




LEARN MORE 





Large websites, fully featured, starting @ $1999.




LEARN MORE 





Perfect for selling products & services, starting @ $2499.




LEARN MORE 



E-Commerce Hosting
Website Hosting














Great starter hosting, features, and pricing starting @ $10.95 per month.




LEARN MORE 





Designed specifically for WORDPRESS sites, starting @ $13.95 per month.




LEARN MORE 





High performance website hosting at affordable cost, starting @ $129 per month.




LEARN MORE 





Fully managed Enterprise level hosting, starting @ $239 per month.




LEARN MORE 



Website Marketing
Add-ons
Support














Sales / Billing: 1-586-226-0400
Hosting Support: 1-877-572-0672








Click below to chat with one of our website engineers now.




CHAT NOW 





Login to your account to create a trouble ticket.




CREATE TICKET 





View our extensive list of FAQS, tutorials and videos.




VIEW FAQS 

Support Home Page
F.A.Q.s
Open Support Ticket
Contact Us


About Us
Blog
My Account Tools
My account
Cart
Checkout
Contact
Log InRegister 






Home
Website Packages














Great business starter website, pricing starting @ $399.




LEARN MORE 





A small business website up to 10 pages, starting @ $1299.




LEARN MORE 





Large websites, fully featured, starting @ $1999.




LEARN MORE 





Perfect for selling products & services, starting @ $2499.




LEARN MORE 



E-Commerce Hosting
Website Hosting














Great starter hosting, features, and pricing starting @ $10.95 per month.




LEARN MORE 





Designed specifically for WORDPRESS sites, starting @ $13.95 per month.




LEARN MORE 





High performance website hosting at affordable cost, starting @ $129 per month.




LEARN MORE 





Fully managed Enterprise level hosting, starting @ $239 per month.




LEARN MORE 



Website Marketing
Add-ons
Support














Sales / Billing: 1-586-226-0400
Hosting Support: 1-877-572-0672








Click below to chat with one of our website engineers now.




CHAT NOW 





Login to your account to create a trouble ticket.




CREATE TICKET 





View our extensive list of FAQS, tutorials and videos.




VIEW FAQS 

Support Home Page
F.A.Q.s
Open Support Ticket
Contact Us


About Us
Blog
My Account Tools
 
































HOSTING & E-MAIL E-MAIL QUESTIONS Viewed: 1856 0 





While there is no way to completely stop spam, there is definitely ways to cut back on it substantially. Regardless whether you are using a hosting provider like us, or a large company like MICROSOFT / GOOGLE / YAHOO, OUTLOOK365.COM, etc. for your email hosting, the challenge is still the same – how do you cut back on the amount of spam emails you are receiving, without it flagging too many legitimate emails as spam?
The larger email hosting companies like google for gmail.com, have some pretty extensive spam filters on your account, and they give you some options for controlling how these filters operate. However a very common misconception is that if you use a company like that for email hosting, that you will get much less spam. That is true but what they don’t tell you is that the trade off is since their filters are so extensive and set so high, you will get a lot more legitimate emails caught in their filters, which many will be deleted. I have personally experienced this with my personal gmail.com account. Using those companies to host your email is an option, as is plugging your email accounts into gmail.com, outlook.com, etc. but still with the same challenges. Smaller email hosting companies like ourselves, don’t have as many filters, but the filters we do have give you more control.
There are a few ways that you can decrease the amount of spam that you are receiving to your email account. These options include:
A. Computer options: Using various settings on your computer email software:
ADVANTAGE: This will give you more control over what is flagged as spam, what isn’t and allows you to actually view spam via a folder just in case a legitimate email gets caught, so you can easily flag it as “not spam” for next time. There are several options for this.
DISADVANTAGE: You will have to check your spam / bulk folder more often.
B. Hosting options: Using various filter settings from your hosting account:
ADVANTAGE: This will be more hands off approach using our hosting server spam filter settings. This feature offers various options and settings.
DISADVANTAGE: If you set the filtering too high, it will also flag some legitimate emails as spam and you cannot easily retrieve those.
C. 3rd party email providers: This option would allow you to either plug your email account from us into a provider like gmail.com to use their filter system, or pay extra to have them host your email accounts and use their filters.
ADVANTAGE: This will be more hands off approach using our hosting server spam filter settings. This feature offers various options and settings.
DISADVANTAGE: If you set the filtering too high, it will also flag some legitimate emails as spam and you cannot easily retrieve those.
Advanced users can also use a combination of these options. General instructions for each are listed below.

 

This option will give you the most control, only requiring that you can go through your spam locally every once in a while and delete, or add a user to your safe senders list. 
If using software on your computer for accessing email, like MS OUTLOOK, try these steps to help filter more spam emails.
1. Find instructions specific to your version of software by googling your software name, version, and add the words “junk email options” to the end of it. In example you could try:
outlook 2013 junk email options
someothersoftwarename spam email options
In this sample case, we were using OUTLOOK 2013, so we clicked on a page from MICROSOFT that gave great instructions and explanations of their software filters.
https://support.office.com/en-nz/article/Change-the-level-of-protection-in-the-Junk-Email-Filter-ef21aec7-6eb5-4457-8b94-93f13fc275cb?ui=en-US&rs=en-NZ&ad=NZ
2. Follow instructions to get to the JUNK EMAIL OPTIONS or equivelant for your software.
* please note: some computer email software will not have junk or spam email options.
3. Select the level of junk email filtering you desire. It is set by default at NO AUTOMATIC FILTERING and you can change it to LOW, HIGH, or SAFE SENDERS LIST ONLY. We suggest you set it to LOW or if you are really gettings tons of spam set it to HIGH. The “SAFE SENDERS LIST ONLY option is only for advanced users.
4. Done!


This option will allow you to stop spam at the server level before it even gets to your inbox. How much spam is stopped / filtered depends upon what settings you use. 
1. Login to your hosting control panel, i.e. www.yoursite.com/cpanel/
2. Scroll down to the EMAIL section and click on “Apache SpamAssassin”.
3. Click “Enable Apache SpamAssassin” button, then configure this as you desire:
a. SCORE: There is various criteria that gives each email “points”. The score determines what score it must have to be cleared as legitimate email. A guide to this includes:
– 0: everything incoming will be marked as spam.
– 5: the default middle setting (most common for typical users)
– 10: the lowest setting, which will barely filter out any spam.
We recommend you leave this at 5, or maybe 4 at lowest.
b. AUTO-DELETE SPAM: This function automatically will delete any emails that are flagged as spam by the filters. We recommend to ONLY enable this option if you set your score to 4 or above, else you run a high risk of legitimate emails getting deleted.
c. SPAM BOX: This option allows you to have all spam emails pushed to a spam folder it will create for each email address you host with us. To access this spam folder:
– if using one of the CPANEL webmail programs, create a new folder called “spam” all lowercase.
– if using computer software like MS OUTLOOK with IMAP setup, search for how to “subscribe to folders”.
For additional information on SpamAssassin, click here.


This gives you two options:
A. Plugin your email accounts to third party:
For this option you could keep your email hosted with your website, while plugging your email accounts into a third party provider like gmail.com so that you can use their spam filters. This would require you to login to that provider to check email on regular basis. Please see instructions from a provider where your personal email account is for full instructions.
B. Host emails with different provider:
For this option you would keep your website hosting as is and signup for email hosting with another provider. You would have to follow instructions given by that provider to do so. After setup is complete there, that provider will give you DNS records to give back to us so that we can update your website hosting to tell our server your email is now being hosted elsewhere. In this case you will have to open a ticket to us with that information, or contact your project manager.
* please note: If you choose this option, it will not lower the cost of your monthly hosting with us.












 













Support Home
F.A.Q.s Home
My account
Create Trouble Ticket
GETTING STARTEDGENERAL FAQSBILLING QUESTIONSDOMAIN QUESTIONSHOSTING & E-MAILMAGENTO QUESTIONSMICROSITES - HOW TOMY ACCOUNT TOOLSPROJECT / CONTRACT QUESTIONSPCI COMPLIANCE QUESTIONSosCOMMERCE QUESTIONSSERVER MANAGEMENTWOOCOMMERCE QUESTIONSWORDPRESS How do I change my website FTP password? A hacker got a hold of my hosting logins - how did this happen and how can I protect myself? How do I access my website statistics reports? The company I bought my SSL from is giving me different options for download. Which version of SSL do I select? Hosting Monthly Bandwidth Capacity Questions?




HostingAdvice.com Review Of TPP Web Solutions


COVID-19 Update


Hosting cPanel Price Increases


Avoid Website Revenge: The Better Way To File Consumer Complaints


Helping Your Web Developer: Effective Website Error Reporting For Website Owners




Blog

News

Social Media Tips

Tutorials

Website & Internet Security

Website Marketing & Advertising

Website Owner Tips

WordPress Tips & Tricks







HostingAdvice.com Review Of TPP Web Solutions


COVID-19 Update


Hosting cPanel Price Increases


Avoid Website Revenge: The Better Way To File Consumer Complaints


Helping Your Web Developer: Effective Website Error Reporting For Website Owners


 












 



OUR CLIENTS HAVE BEEN FEATURED IN:



 
 






 
Website Packages
Website Hosting
Website Management
Website Marketing
Website Add-ons
Design Services
Overview
Website Design
Logo Design
WordPress Theme Design
Facebook Cover Videos
Social Media Design
Overview
Shared Hosting
E-Commerce Hosting
WordPress Hosting
Cloud Hosting
Dedicated Servers
Overview
Search Engine Marketing
Top 10 Rankings
Social Media Marketing
Email Marketing
Internet Press Releases
Overview
Domain Purchases
Website Backups
Website Chat
Website Security
WordPress Plugins
WordPress Hosting
WordPress Theme Design
WordPress Customizing
WordPress Migration
WordPress Plugins
WordPress Optimization
Overview
Managed Social Media
Website Backups
Website Maintenance
Call Center Services
Overview
Mobile Apps
PCI Compliance
Website Payments
Website Security Review
Support Home
F.A.Q.s / Tutorials
Support Request
Online Chat
About Us
Contact Us
Our Location
Company News
Employment
My account
Update Billing
My Tickets
New Ticket
 BY PHONE:
Sales / Billing: 1-586-226-0400
Hosting Support: 1-877-572-0672


 
 






Copyright © 2019 TPP Web Solutions, a division of Tsunami PC-Productions. 
Privacy Policy  |  Terms Of Service 







    
Posting....


