Nearly half of all the emails sent in the entire world is spam. That’s a LOT of spam to clear. And spam isn’t new; it’s been around since the time of the invention of the email (in the 1980’s). While spam may seem easily avoidable for some people, it remains the no. 1 cause of viruses and other types of malware to enter into the computers or even entire networks. This article will explain what to look out for, provide some tips on ways to stop spam emails –even those that look very real -and how you can reduce your exposure to spam.#1 Train your spam filter When you get a spam email from an unknown sender, don’t just delete it. Select it, and mark it as a spam message. Sometimes, your email client may mark an important email from a known sender as spam. In such scenarios, you need to mark that email as safe to train the email client about your false positives.#2 Never respond to spam In case you received a spam email and recognized it before you open it, don’t open it. If you realize an email as spam only after opening it, mark it as spam and close it. Do not click the links or buttons, or download files from the spam messages.#3 Use alternative email addressesA lot of unwanted emails can make their way into your inbox if you order a product or subscribe to a mailing list. By ordering a product or subscribing to a mailing list of a company, you are automatically signed up to receive unwanted marketing updates from that company, or it may share your contact information with a third-party advertiser. One simple solution to stop such spam emails is to create a secondary email address that you can use for such activities. By doing so, those unwanted marketing emails will not appear in your primary email inbox.#4 Hide your email addressThe more people who expose your email address, the more spam emails you are going to get. So keep your email address hidden from public view. Avoid publishing your primary email address on the web unless it is required. Use alternative email addresses for such scenarios.#5 Use a third-party Anti-spam filterMost of the Anti-spam solutions that are available today can be customized as per your needs, allowing only the approved emails into your inbox. There are free anti-spam software as well as paid anti-spam software. Comodo Dome Antispam is one such solution which can quickly identify and filter spam emails from your inbox. It uses advanced spam filters, and content analysis engines to detect and prevent unsolicited emails from entering your network. If you are in search of a good anti-spam solution that stops spam emails, look no further get Comodo Dome Anti-spam today!