Many people feel overwhelmed by the unsolicited offers they receive at all hours of the day and night. For each category of unwanted communications listed below, you will find tips on: (1) how to get fewer unsolicited offers, and (2) how to report complaints.
Get Less
Sign up with the Direct Marketing Association’s Email Preference Service at https://www.ims-dm.com/cgi/optoutemps.php. It’s free and lasts for six years. This is a voluntary industry program that will stop some but not all junk email.
Never respond to email spam. Your response is likely to trigger more spam to your email address.
Use an email filter. Most Internet Service Providers now offer spam filter tools that let you designate the email addresses you want to receive in your in-box and divert messages from unfamiliar sources into a separate folder.
Uncheck the box that signs you up for email updates. Sometimes when signing up online for a service or buying something, the company will have a box that already has a check in it stating you agree to receive promotional emails. You can sometimes uncheck this box.
Never sign up with sites that promise to remove your name from spam lists. While some sites are legitimate, many are simply seeking to get your email address so they can sell it to others or for some other purpose.
Consider using two email addresses to limit public exposure. One email address can be used for more public activities such as chatrooms, newsgroups, online membership directors, and business transactions. The other email address can be for personal messages.
Do not post your email address on your Web site.
Report
Report email spam to the Federal Trade Commission by sending a copy of the unwanted or deceptive messages to spam@uce.gov, or visiting their website, FTC Complaint Assistant.
Report email spam to your Internet service provider (ISP) such as Comcast, Google Fiber, etc.
Get Less
Make sure your cell phone is in the Do Not Call Registry. You can register for it here: National Do Not Call Registry.
Be very careful where, and with whom, you share your cell phone number.
Do not respond to texts from questionable sources.
Do not click on any links in the text spam.
Do not send personal information (such as credit card numbers, Social Security Number, passwords) if you do not know the recipient.
Check with your mobile service provider about options to block future text messages from specific senders.
Report
If you are an AT&T, T-Mobile, Verizon, Sprint, or Bell subscriber, you can report text spam to your carrier by forwarding the text free of charge to 7726 (“SPAM”).