Know the different ways of configuring HES/HES - Inbound Filtering to stop receiving emails from spoofed senders. 
Email spoofing is often an attempt to trick the user into making a damaging statement or releasing sensitive information (such as passwords).
Email spoofing may occur in different forms, but all have a similar result: a user receives email that appears to have originated from a legitimate source when it actually was sent from a malicious one.
To stop receiving emails from spoofed senders, choose any of the following options:
Option 1: Check your HES configuration settings
Make sure that the domain's MX record is properly redirected to HES / HES - Inbound Filtering. For more information, refer to the KB article: Redirecting Mail Exchange (MX) records to Hosted Email Security (HES).
For the correct MX record for your account, check your HES / HES - Inbound Filtering Confirmation Email.
Verify the action taken by HES/HES - Inbound Filtering on the spoofed email/s.
Log on to the HES/HES - Inbound Filtering console.
Go to Logs > Mail Tracking.
Under Mail Tracking - Inbound Traffic, query the spoofed email address.
Check if the spoofed sender is listed on the Approved Senders List on the HES / HES - Inbound Filtering console.
If not, check if the end-user is registered to the HES/HES - Inbound Filtering Web EUQ. If the owner of the spoofed address is registered to HES Web EUQ, make sure that the address is also not listed in the Web-EUQ Approved Senders list. To do this, you can:
Ask the owner of the spoofed email address.
On the HES / HES - Inbound Filtering console, go to Administration > End-User password and then query the email address.
If a corporate firewall is in place, configure the firewall to allow only the HES/HES – Inbound Filtering IP ranges. Otherwise, proceed to the next step.
Increase the aggressiveness of the Dynamic IP Reputation Settings.
Option 2: Create a policy for filtering spoofed emails
Login to HES Console, Go to Inbound Protection > Policy.
Click Add Rule.
Fill out the following:
Name(Name of the Rule)
Enable Status
Go to Recipients and Senders
Go to Recipients, in the drop down list, select My domain, My Groups or Type address or domain of the recipients.
Go to Senders then click Select addresses to choose My domain or Type address or domain of the recipients.
Under Scanning Criteria, select No criteria, then set the "And message attributes match" to None.
Under Actions, you may choose which action you want for the spoofed e-mails. The recommendations are Quarantine or Delete entire message.
In this example, set "Then action is" to Quarantine message.
Option 3: Use the Blocked Senders option
Go to Inbound Protection > Blocked Senders.
Add all your known spoofed senders or any sender you want to be blocked. A sender can be a specific email address or all senders from a domain.
Option 4: Configure SPF Checking (Sender Policy Framework)
Go to DNS and add TXT record:
When using HES Outbound scanning, the following is the recommended SPF record:
v=spf1 a:rout.hes.trendmicro.com include:spf.hes.trendmicro.com -all
When you are not using HES Outbound scanning, the following is the recommended SPF record:
v=spf1 ip4:IP_OF_YOUR_OUTGOING_MTA