Spam is an unsolicited message sent to your mobile phone or email, often to promote goods and services, push a political or social agenda or spread a virus.
Spam email, or junk email, is more than just an annoying, long-standing internet problem. It can contain spyware (“trojans”), or direct you to fake sites where scammers will try to trick you into revealing information.
Since email is a cheap way to contact people, marketers send lots of it to try to sell their products and services. 
They find you by:
Scanning online discussion groups
Visiting chatrooms
Buying or stealing internet mailing lists
Searching the web for email addresses
Randomly guessing email addresses
Here are a few tips to limit your exposure and help reduce the amount of spam you receive:
Consider using more than one email address – use one with close friends and family, another for shopping or newsletters.
Filter out potential spam or push it to a separate folder in your email.
Only share your email address with someone you know, and when you know how they will use it.
Opt out of marketing messages when registering with a new site.
Ignore spam email, even if it offers to unsubscribe you. A reply lets the spammer know your address is active.
Never click a web link listed within a spam email.
Disregard sites that promise to remove your name from spam lists. They are likely address collectors.
If you post your email address in a public place, add a character to change it slightly. This could be as simple as inserting a number before the @ symbol. This will protect your true email address from crooks using computer programs to search for email addresses.
To reduce text spam, consider the following:
Reply to unsolicited short codes with “STOP” in the body of the response to prevent future messages.
Block calls and texts from a specific 10-digit number by going to AT&T Call Protect.
If the calls continue, report the number to our customer care team.
We want all customers to know that we will not ask for information through email or text messages. If you think a caller is trying to scam you, hang up. If you receive a suspicious text message, forward it to 7726 (SPAM).  
If you suspect you are a target of fraud on your AT&T mobile phone account, you can report it to our Fraud team here. If you suspect fraud on another account, call the customer service number on your bill for help.
You can also share the suspicious message with the Anti-Phishing Working Group or report it to the FTC.
To find out more about reporting fraud, check out our Resources page.